Title: From Narrative to Auditable Forecasts: A Structured Scaffold for Agentic Forecasting

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2609.05905v1

Published Time: Wed, 09 Sep 2026 00:28:38 GMT

Number of Pages: 19

Markdown Content:
# From Narrative to Auditable Forecasts: A Structured Scaffold for Agentic Forecasting 

Yuanpu Cao, Yongkang Du, Yurui Chang, Lu Lin, Jinghui Chen 

The Pennsylvania State University 

{ymc5533,ybd5136,yuruic,lulin,jzc5917}@psu.edu 

Abstract 

LLM agents are increasingly used for live fore-casting, where they retrieve up-to-date infor-mation and produce estimates for unresolved future events. However, current agentic fore-casting often relies on implicit narrative ag-gregation: agents collect evidence, discuss it in prose, and often assign a probability with-out an explicit update path from evidence to forecast. This limits both forecasting accu-racy and auditability. We propose A UDIT FORE -

> CAST

, an agentic scaffold for structured prob-abilistic forecasting. AUDIT FORECAST first anchors the forecast with a suitable quantita-tive baseline model, uses model-guided data retrieval to derive a base probability, and then applies situational factor updates outside the model’s scope through mechanical aggregation in odds space. This turns forecasting from a prose-based judgment into a structured pro-cess with explicit intermediate objects. Across multiple live forecasting benchmarks, A UDIT -FORECAST improves forecasting accuracy and calibration relative to strong agentic baselines, surpasses market-implied references in several settings, and outperforms substantially more ex-pensive deep-research agents while remaining Pareto-dominant in the cost–accuracy tradeoff. Beyond performance gains, A UDIT FORECAST 

produces an auditable forecasting report that makes forecast construction explicit and sup-ports systematic post hoc analysis. 

1 Introduction 

Large language model (LLM) agents (Yao et al., 2023; Luo et al., 2025) augment foundation models with action modules for interacting with external environments (Schick et al., 2023), enabling them to perform web search, call APIs, and use task-specific tools to tackle more demanding real-world tasks (Liu et al., 2025; Yang et al., 2024). In this context, forecasting future events has emerged as an increasingly prominent application for LLM agents (Zeng et al., 2026), since such predictions Will META close above $610 on March 25, 2026? 

> Search Summary
> (1) $610 is only +1.01% above the March 24 regular close .
> (2) META was weaker than the broad market after hours. (3) Fundamentals and medium-term sentiment are still supportive.
> Reasoning Summary
> Balancing the bearish near-term tape against the still-bullish fundamental backdrop, I think NO is somewhat more likely than YES.
> Final Probability to Yes: 0.29
> Narrative Reasoning yields an opaque probability
> How does these points lead to 0.29?

Figure 1: A narrative forecast from GPT-5.4 under Think & Search agent framework: the agent retrieves evidence, balances it narratively, and assigns a probabil-ity without an explicit derivation. 

are closely tied to decision-making in domains such as economics (Rapach and Zhou, 2013), poli-tics (Monteiro and Dal Borgo, 2023), and business (Hyndman and Athanasopoulos, 2018), with broad consequences for markets and public life. At the same time, forecasting is a challenging task for LLM agents, requiring high-quality in-formation gathering, evidence analysis, and prob-abilistic reasoning under uncertainty. To evalu-ate these capabilities, recent work has introduced contamination-free live benchmarks (Yang et al., 2026; Zeng et al., 2026) by extracting forecast-ing questions from real-time public prediction plat-forms and evaluating advanced LLM agents on them. In particular, FutureX (Zeng et al., 2026) shows that both Think&Search agents and deep-research agents can improve forecasting accuracy over base LLMs. Specifically, Think&Search agents are built on the ReAct framework (Yao et al., 2023), executing iterative Reason–Act–Observe cycles to incrementally acquire new information through web search and refine their forecasts. Deep-research agents (OpenAI, 2025a) extend this scaffold with longer-horizon planning and special-ized subagents, enabling more hierarchical infor-mation gathering and reasoning. arXiv:2609.05905v1 [cs.CL] 5 Sep 2026 However, even though these agents actively search for and accumulate substantial contextual information and evidence, their forecasting pro-cess still often collapses into a form of narrative aggregation : as illustrated in fig. 1, they list vari-ous pieces of information, weigh them qualitatively in prose, and then attach a probability estimate without an explicit computational pathway from evidence to forecast. As a result, it remains un-clear how the final forecast probability is actually derived. This creates two problems. First, quali-tative balancing can yield suboptimally calibrated probability estimates, especially when a question admits a natural quantitative anchor. Second, be-cause the intermediate reasoning objects are not made explicit, forecasting errors and update de-cisions become difficult to inspect systematically after event resolution. To address these issues, we propose A UDIT -FORECAST , an agentic scaffold for forecasting built around a structured probabilistic decompo-sition. Instead of directly assigning a final probabil-ity through narrative synthesis alone, A UDIT FORE - 

> CAST

first attempts to anchor the forecast with a suitable quantitative baseline model. It then uses model-guided data retrieval to gather the inputs required by that model and derive a base proba-bility, thereby preventing the agent from drifting into arbitrary and unbounded search. On top of this baseline, A UDIT FORECAST identifies situational factor updates outside the model’s scope and com-bines them mechanically in odds space. This turns forecasting from an implicit prose-based judgment into a structured probabilistic process with explicit intermediate objects. As a result, A UDIT FORE - 

> CAST

not only improves forecasting quality, but also produces an auditable forecasting report that supports systematic post hoc analysis. We summa-rize our contributions as follows. • We identify a structural limitation of existing agentic forecasting: they often rely on narrative aggregation, lacking an interpretable computa-tional path from retrieved evidence to the final forecast. We address this with A UDIT FORE -

> CAST

, a forecasting-specific scaffold that de-composes each forecast into a model-derived base probability and situational factor updates. • Across multiple live forecasting benchmarks and frontier foundation models, including GPT-5.4, GPT-5.4-mini, and Gemini-3-Flash, AUDIT FORECAST consistently improves fore-casting accuracy over strong agentic base-lines, surpasses market-implied references, and outperforms substantially more expensive deep-research agents while remaining Pareto-dominant in the cost–accuracy tradeoff. • By producing an auditable forecasting report, AUDIT FORECAST supports post hoc analysis of forecast construction. This enables systematic auditing of both base-probability formation and factor-level updating, yielding new insight into LLM forecasting behavior. 

2 Related Work 

LLM forecasting. Early work on LLM forecast-ing primarily studies standalone LLM systems. Schoenegger and Park (2023) show that GPT-4 underperforms the human crowd in a real-world forecasting tournament, while Schoenegger et al. (2024) find that aggregating forecasts across mul-tiple LLMs substantially improves performance. Related work also explores retrieval-augmented pipelines and prompt design, showing that better information access can improve forecasting ac-curacy (Halawi et al., 2024; Wang et al., 2024), while prompting alone appears to yield only lim-ited gains (Schoenegger et al., 2025). Training-based approaches push further through stronger supervision, including self-supervised fine-tuning (Halawi et al., 2024), self-play with DPO (Tur-tel et al., 2025a; Rafailov et al., 2023), outcome-based reinforcement learning (Turtel et al., 2025b), and large-scale reinforcement learning on synthetic forecasting questions derived from news (Chandak et al., 2025). Together, these works establish a promising foundation for LLM-based forecasting. 

Live forecasting benchmarks for LLM agents. 

Recent work has introduced live forecasting bench-marks for LLM agents. ForecastBench (Karger et al., 2025) and ProphetArena (Yang et al., 2026) are built on public prediction platforms and eval-uate probabilistic forecasting across diverse unre-solved real-world events Zeng et al. (2026) extend this direction to LLM agents, introducing a large-scale live benchmark for future prediction that evaluates forecasting together with search, plan-ning, and tool use in dynamic environments. These benchmarks provide an important evaluation sub-strate for forecasting agents. By contrast, our work focuses on the agentic forecasting scaffold itself, aiming to make the mapping from evidence to prob-ability explicit, auditable, and better calibrated. Base Probability Derivation                     

> •Model: I used a zero-drift lognormal one-session model as the base case
> •Inputs: latest visible intraday spot 𝑆 = 261.71 from Robinhood‘s April 28 snapshot , strike/threshold 𝐾 = 265 ,and annualized 30-day implied volatility 𝐼𝑉 = 39.85% from OptionCharts . Converting IV to one trading day gives
> 𝜎 !" = 0.3985/ 252 = 0.025 1.
> •Assumptions: (1) zero drift over the remaining session, (2) returns are approximately lognormal.
> •Calculation: 𝑝 #= 1 − Φ(𝑙𝑛(265 / 261.71) / 0.0251) = 0.309 ,𝑜𝑑𝑑𝑠 #= 𝑝 #/(1 − 𝑝 #) = 0.448

Situational Factors                 

> Factor 1:Risk-off macro tape from oil/geopolitics
> •Why not in 𝒑 𝟎 :The model does not incorporate same-day macro news about the broader geopolitical risk appetite.
> •Evidence: Reuters/U.S. News reported that S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100 futures fell early Tuesday as concerns about the U.S.-Iran impasse and elevated oil prices weighed on sentiment. Yahoo 's market coverage also highlighted Hormuz closure/oil-risk headlines and big-tech earnings as key market themes that day.
> •Assessment: This favors NO slightly. AMZN can outperform the tape, but a cautious macro backdrop makes it harder for a mega-cap growth stock to finish the day above a fresh-record closing threshold. I keep the effect modest because this is a company-specific market and AMZN already showed intraday strength above 265.
> •Odds multiplier (Likelihood Ratio): 𝐿𝑅 != 0.85
> Factor 2:Failed breakout / target still requires a record close - Odds multiplier :𝐿𝑅 %= 0.45
> Factor 3:Bullish pre-earnings analyst setup - Odds multiplier :𝐿𝑅 &= 1.20

Aggregation            

> •Final odds: 𝑜𝑑𝑑𝑠 = 𝑜𝑑𝑑𝑠 #× 𝐿𝑅 !× 𝐿𝑅 %× 𝐿𝑅 &= 0.448 × 0.85 × 0.45 × 1.20 = 0.206
> •Final probability: 𝑝 = 𝑜𝑑𝑑𝑠/(1 + 𝑜𝑑𝑑𝑠) = 0.171
> 1.1 Commit to a quantitative model 1.2 Model-guided data retrieval 1.3 Compute 𝒑 𝟎 via code execution
> Will Amazon (AMZN) close above $265 on April 28?
> Stage 1: Base Probability Derivation
> 2.1 Propose candidate factors 2.2 Retrieve supporting evidence 2.3 Validate: scope & independence Stage 2: Factor Identification
> 3.1 Assign direction & magnitude 3.2 Aggregate factors via code execution Stage 3: Factor Assessment & Aggregation
> Model Data A Data B Data C 𝒑 𝟎

𝑭 𝟏 𝑭 𝟐 𝑭 𝟑 

𝑭 𝟐 

"𝑭 𝟏 

"  

> Within 𝒑 𝟎
> scope
> Not independent
> No Yes Neutral

𝑭 𝟏 

"

𝑭 𝟐 

" 𝑭 𝟏    

> #odds multiplier
> 𝑭 𝟐
> #odds multiplier
> 𝒑 𝟎 𝒑 𝒇𝒊𝒏𝒂𝒍
> And

Ground Truth: No 

𝑭 𝟒 𝑭 𝟓 

𝑭 𝟑 

"

𝑭 𝟑 

" 𝑭 𝟑  

> #odds multiplier

Auditable Forecasting Report Figure 2: Left: the agent workflow under A UDIT FORECAST . Right: the corresponding auditable forecasting report. Highlighted text emphasizes key information and steps in the forecasting process. 

3 Methodology 

3.1 Overview 

Existing agentic forecasting is typically built on multi-turn interaction frameworks such as Think&Search and deep research (Zeng et al., 2026). Their common structure consists of itera-tive Reason–Act–Observe cycles (Yao et al., 2023), through which the agent incrementally acquires information from the internet and refines its fore-cast. Deep-research agents (OpenAI, 2025a) ex-tend this pattern with adaptive planning and spe-cialized search subagents, enabling more compre-hensive information gathering and reasoning. Al-though these frameworks improve forecasting per-formance over base LLMs, we find that agentic forecasting still often falls into a form of narrative aggregation : agents gather substantial information, synthesize it in prose, and then assign a final prob-ability without an explicit mapping from evidence to probabilistic contribution, leaving the resulting forecast difficult to interpret and audit. A large class of real-world forecasting questions, however, admits a natural quantitative anchor. For example, a stock threshold event can be anchored by a return-based model (Black and Scholes, 1973). Such models capture the expected trajectory of the world under ordinary conditions and provide a nat-ural probabilistic baseline. Yet no model captures every current, case-specific development relevant to the forecast. A sudden geopolitical event, for instance, may shift market sentiment in ways that fall outside the scope of the baseline model. Fore-casting therefore requires combining two comple-mentary sources of information: a model-derived baseline and evidence-grounded updates outside its scope. Motivated by this decomposition, we pro-pose A UDIT FORECAST , an agentic scaffold that represents each forecast through two explicit com-ponents: a base probability p0 derived from the expected trajectory, and a set of situational factor updates outside the scope of p0. These components are combined mechanically in odds space. By en-forcing this decomposition as a schema-level out-put constraint, A UDIT FORECAST produces an au-ditable forecasting report that makes forecast con-struction explicit and interpretable. In section 3.2, we formalize this decomposition by interpreting p0

as the base probability under the expected trajec-tory and each factor as an odds-space update. In section 3.3, we then describe the core components of the A UDIT FORECAST scaffold. Detailed scaf-fold implementation is provided in Appendix B.2. 

3.2 Structured Forecast Decomposition 

AUDIT FORECAST is motivated by a Bayesian odds-space view of forecasting. We focus on binary event forecasting in this work, consistent with the formulation commonly used in prediction-market settings (Yang et al., 2026). Let Y ∈{YES , NO } denote the event outcome, and let 

E = ( E1, . . . , E n) denote the evidence associated with a set of validated factors. By Bayes’ rule,            

> P(Y= YES |E) = P(E|Y=YES) P(Y=YES)
> P(E)

, (1)            

> P(Y= NO |E) = P(E|Y=NO) P(Y=NO)
> P(E)

. (2) Taking the ratio of eqs. (1) and (2) yields                              

> P(Y= YES |E)
> P(Y= NO |E)
> |{z }
> posterior odds
> =P(Y= YES)
> P(Y= NO)
> |{z }
> prior odds
> ·P(E|Y= YES)
> P(E|Y= NO)
> |{z }
> likelihood ratio
> .

(3) Thus, posterior odds equal prior odds multiplied by a likelihood-ratio term. If the evidence variables 

E1, . . . , E n are conditionally independent given the event outcome, the joint likelihood ratio factor-izes across factors (see Appendix A for details):      

> P(E|Y=YES)
> P(E|Y=NO)

= Qni=1      

> P(Ei|Y=YES)
> P(Ei|Y=NO)

. (4) This motivates decomposing a forecast into a prior belief over the event and a sequence of situational factor updates. In our scaffold, the agent first uses quantitative modeling to derive a base probabil-ity p0, with corresponding odds o0 = p0 

> 1−p0

, and then identifies each situational factor and approxi-mates its effect on the prior odds, representing that effect as an odds multiplier, denoted by LR i, in likelihood-ratio form: 

LR i = P (Ei|Y =YES)    

> P(Ei|Y=NO)

, (5) Under the conditional-independence assumption in eq. (4), the final posterior odds and forecast probability follow from eq. (3): 

o = o0

Qni=1 LR i, p = o 

> 1+ o

. (6) This decomposition underlies A UDIT FORECAST ’s auditability: p0 is recorded explicitly, each factor contributes a single quantitative update term, and the final forecast p is obtained through a mechani-cal aggregation step. 

3.3 The A UDIT FORECAST Scaffold 

We now operationalize the forecast decomposition in section 3.2 as an agentic scaffold. Given a fore-casting question, A UDIT FORECAST organizes the agent’s behavior into three explicit stages: deriving a base probability p0, identifying model-external factors, and assessing and aggregating factor up-dates. While the underlying agent may iterate within a stage through search, reasoning, and com-putation, the scaffold constrains the final output to a structured forecasting report so that the path from evidence to probability remains explicit and au-ditable. Figure 2 (left) illustrates the corresponding agent workflow under the scaffold. 

Stage 1: Base Probability Derivation. The first stage begins by establishing the forecasting context through lightweight search, including the current state of the question, the relevant entities, and the resolution horizon. The scaffold then requires the agent to assess whether the question admits a suit-able quantitative model for baseline estimation. If so, the agent commits to that model and explicitly records the model choice, the required inputs, and the key assumptions. This commitment induces model-guided data retrieval: instead of allowing the baseline estimate to be shaped by arbitrary search trajectories, subsequent search is directed toward the quantities required to instantiate the chosen model. In practice, this steers the agent toward pri-mary sources for grounded inputs, such as price and options data from Yahoo Finance or official earn-ings information from company investor-relations pages, reducing reliance on third-party speculation, commentary, and other search artifacts that can dis-tort the baseline estimate. The retrieved inputs are then passed to code execution to enable accurate computation of p0. The output of this stage is thus not only a base probability p0, but also a structured record of how that baseline was constructed. 

Stage 2: Factor Identification. The second stage identifies model-external factors that should update the base probability. In existing agentic forecast-ing, agents often respond to retrieved evidence by listing loosely organized pros and cons, without ex-plicitly distinguishing information already encoded in the baseline model from information that should enter only as a later update. As a result, the update process becomes vulnerable to double counting and overlapping factors. A UDIT FORECAST addresses this problem by making factor identification condi-tional on the constructed baseline p0. Rather than collecting additional evidence indiscriminately, the agent asks what relevant information is still not encoded by the baseline model and proposes candi-date factors, such as broader macroeconomic, po-litical, or market-wide conditions. It then extends search along these evidence channels to instanti-ate each candidate factor with concrete supporting evidence. Each instantiated factor is subsequently validated along two dimensions. First, the agent performs a scope check, verifying that the factor is genuinely outside the scope of p0 rather than a restatement of information already encoded in Method Polymarket Kalshi Stocks Crypto Sports Overall Finance Entertain. Sports Overall                                                                         

> GPT-5.4
> Think&Search 0.1063 0.1599 0.2538 0.1342 0.0588 0.1276 0.2258 0.1028 Market-Implied 0.1265 0.1582 0.2540 0.1494 0.0759 0.1073 0.2263 0.1060
> AuditForecast 0.0950 0.1257 0.2517 0.1225 0.0524 0.0943 0.2119 0.0870
> GPT-5.4-mini
> Think&Search 0.1116 0.1531 0.2600 0.1387 0.0704 0.1862 0.2296 0.1280 Market-Implied 0.1265 0.1582 0.2540 0.1494 0.0759 0.1073 0.2263 0.1060 AuditForecast 0.1021 0.1240 0.2465 0.1270 0.0567 0.1555 0.2041 0.1074
> Gemini-3-flash
> Think&Search 0.1197 0.2252 0.2477 0.1603 0.0972 0.2458 0.2549 0.1699 Market-Implied 0.1251 0.2071 0.2452 0.1617 0.0697 0.1143 0.2588 0.1166 AuditForecast 0.0982 0.2021 0.2398 0.1420 0.0651 0.1695 0.2441 0.1284
> Table 1: Brier score ( ↓) on Polymarket and Kalshi. The Market-Implied reference for Gemini-3-flash differs from that of the GPT backbones because it is evaluated on a different live time range.

the baseline model. Second, the agent performs an independence check: because the odds-space aggregation in section 3.2 assumes conditional in-dependence across factors, candidates that share the same underlying causal mechanism are further revised, merged, or discarded. The output of this stage is a structured set of validated factors that are evidence-grounded, out of scope of p0, and sufficiently distinct for subsequent aggregation. 

Stage 3: Factor Assessment and Aggregation. 

The third stage assigns each validated factor an explicit quantitative role in the final forecast. For each factor i, the agent records an assessment that reasons from the supporting evidence to the fac-tor’s directional impact, and then assigns an odds multiplier LR i. Its interpretation is 



LR i > 1, favors YES ,

LR i < 1, favors NO ,

LR i = 1 , is neutral .

In this way, each factor is represented by a single scalar update term that approximates the likelihood-ratio update in eq. (5) for subsequent aggregation. Once p0 and {LR i}ni=1 are available, the final prob-ability is computed according to eq. (6). 

Auditable Forecasting Report. The right side of fig. 2 shows the forecasting report produced by AUDIT FORECAST . This report records the base-probability derivation, the situational factors with their supporting evidence and scope justifications, and the final odds-space aggregation that yields the forecast probability. By making these intermediate objects explicit, the scaffold supports direct inspec-tion of how the forecast was constructed and how each retained factor contributed to the final predic-tion. It also enables clearer post hoc analysis once the event is resolved, providing a more transparent view of LLM-agent forecasting behavior. More case studies are provided in Appendix C. 

4 Experiments 

4.1 Experimental Settings Agent Backbones and Implementation. We pri-marily consider three frontier LLM backbones: GPT-5.4, GPT-5.4-mini, and Gemini-3-flash. We implement the agentic scaffold using the OpenAI Agents SDK (OpenAI, 2025b) and Google’s Agent Development Kit (Google, 2025). Detailed imple-mentation details are provided in Appendix B.2. 

Benchmarks and Evaluation. We evaluate on three live forecasting benchmarks: two pre-diction markets, Polymarket (Polymarket, 2026) and Kalshi (Kalshi, 2026) (accessed through ProphetArena (Yang et al., 2026)), and one multi-source benchmark, FutureX (Zeng et al., 2026). Our evaluation covers questions resolving in April– May 2026, yielding 831 questions for GPT-5.4 and GPT-5.4-mini, and 709 questions for Gemini-3-flash. The difference reflects separate evaluation runs conducted at different times, which resulted in different question pools. Detailed dataset con-struction is provided in Appendix B.1. As the met-ric, following standard practice in LLM forecast-ing (Halawi et al., 2024; Yang et al., 2026), we report the Brier score Brier = 1

> N

PNi=1 (pi − yi)2,where pi ∈ [0 , 1] is the forecast for question i and 

yi ∈ { 0, 1} is the realized outcome. Smaller scores indicate better forecasts. Method Level 1 Level 2 Overall 

GPT-5.4 

Think&Search 0.2879 0.1091 0.1274 

AuditForecast 0.0932 0.0921 0.0922 

GPT-5.4-mini 

Think&Search 0.0970 0.1251 0.1223 

AuditForecast 0.0965 0.1239 0.1211 

Gemini-3-flash 

Think&Search 0.0728 0.1837 0.1671 

AuditForecast 0.0675 0.1438 0.1324 

Table 2: Brier score ( ↓) on FutureX. 

Baselines. We compare against four types of baselines. Think&Search is the default agentic scaffold used by both the ProphetArena Leader-board (ProphetArena, 2026) and FutureX as a frontier-LLM configuration for forecasting tasks. We also compare against deep-research agents ,which represent an advanced class of systems for open-ended information gathering and reasoning. In particular, we consider the closed-source o3-deep-research and o4-mini-deep-research (OpenAI, 2025a), as well as the open-source smolagents-deep-research (Roucher et al., 2025); detailed com-parisons are presented in section 4.4. We also in-clude Market-Implied , defined as the probability derived from prediction-market prices at each ques-tion’s run-time (i.e., when the agent produced its forecast). It captures the aggregate forecast of mar-ket participants and serves as a reference point. Fi-nally, we compare against two Time-Series Foun-dation Models (TSFMs) , Chronos-2 (Ansari et al., 2025) and TimesFM (Das et al., 2024), on the value-threshold forecasting subset from Polymarket. 

4.2 Main Results AuditForecast consistently outperforms Think &Search with the same backbone and enables frontier LLMs to surpass market-implied ref-erences. Table 1 and table 2 summarize the live evaluation results on public prediction platforms (Polymarket and Kalshi) and on FutureX, respec-tively. Across all backbones and benchmarks, A U-

DIT FORECAST yields consistent gains over the Think&Search baseline. On Polymarket, every backbone under A UDIT FORECAST surpasses the market-implied reference, while on Kalshi GPT-5.4 also exceeds the market. The gains also transfer to smaller models: for example, GPT-5.4-mini under AUDIT FORECAST outperforms GPT-5.4 under the baseline scaffold on Polymarket. These results sug-GPT-5.4 GPT-5.4 mini Gemini-3 flash    

> 0.06 0.08 0.10 0.12 0.14
> Polymarket
> AuditForecast w/o Factor AuditForecast
> GPT-5.4 GPT-5.4 mini Gemini-3 flash
> 0.06 0.08 0.10 0.12 0.14 Kalshi
> GPT-5.4 GPT-5.4 mini Gemini-3 flash
> 0.06 0.08 0.10 0.12 0.14 0.16
> FutureX

Figure 3: Brier score ( ↓) of A UDIT FORECAST with and without factor updates. Factor updates consistently improve forecasting performance. 

gest that the scaffold unlocks additional forecasting capability from the underlying base models. 

Factor updates further calibrate the base prob-ability and improve forecasting accuracy. Fig-ure 3 reports the Brier scores of A UDIT FORECAST 

with and without factor updates across three back-bones on Polymarket, Kalshi, and FutureX. In all settings, including factor updates improves perfor-mance, demonstrating the value of the structured forecast decomposition in refining the base proba-bility with evidence-grounded adjustments. 

4.3 Effect of Varying Reasoning Effort 

Frontier LLMs allow the amount of reasoning ef-fort at inference time to be adjusted. In section 4.2, GPT-5.4 and GPT-5.4-mini use medium reason-ing effort by default. Here, we further examine how varying reasoning effort affects forecasting performance through a focused evaluation on 90 Polymarket questions resolving in May 2026, using GPT-5.4 as the backbone. As shown in fig. 4 (left), AUDIT FORECAST outperforms Think&Search at low, medium, and high reasoning effort, and yields substantially lower Brier scores than the market-implied reference across all three settings. The gap is especially pronounced at low reasoning effort, where Think&Search degrades markedly while A U-

DIT FORECAST remains comparatively stable, sug-gesting that the structured decomposition in A U-

DIT FORECAST reduces the dependence of forecast-ing quality on larger reasoning budgets. Figure 4 (right) reports the average number of web searches per question. At medium and high reasoning ef-fort, A UDIT FORECAST uses substantially fewer searches than Think&Search while still achieving better forecasting accuracy. This pattern is consis-tent with the scaffold’s model-guided search be-havior: rather than allowing search to expand arbi-trarily as reasoning effort increases, A UDIT FORE -

CAST directs search toward model inputs and factor-relevant evidence. Overall, these results show that AUDIT FORECAST is not only more accurate, but also more robust to reasoning budget and more targeted in its use of search. low medium high Reasoning effort    

> 0.04 0.06 0.08 0.10 0.12 0.14 0.16 0.18
> Brier score
> Market-Implied Think&Search AuditForecast
> low medium high Reasoning effort
> 0510 15 20 25
> # web searches per question

Figure 4: Effect of reasoning effort on forecasting accu-racy and search usage. Results are shown for GPT-5.4 on Polymarket questions. 

4.4 Comparison with Deep Research Agents 

Deep research agents are typically designed for complex research topics: they can plan their own research strategy, iteratively browse dozens of pages, and ultimately compile comprehensive re-ports (Du et al., 2025). In this section, we further compare A UDIT FORECAST against such systems. Specifically, we consider OpenAI’s flagship o3-deep-research and o4-mini-deep-research (OpenAI, 2025a), as well as the open-source smolagents-deep-research (Roucher et al., 2025) from Hug-gingface. For smolagents-deep-research and A U-

DIT FORECAST , we use GPT-5.4 as the foundation model. We evaluate all methods on the same Poly-market evaluation set, consisting of 142 forecast-ing questions resolving in May 2026. As shown in fig. 5 (left), A UDIT FORECAST achieves the best overall forecasting performance while also oper-ating at the lowest cost per question, making it the unique Pareto-dominant method in the cost– accuracy plane. It outperforms all three deep-research agents in Brier score and also improves over the Market-Implied reference. Figure 5 (right) further shows that A UDIT FORECAST uses substan-tially fewer web searches per question than the deep-research agents. Thus, the performance gain does not come from broader search, but from more targeted and forecasting-specific use of search, con-sistent with the trend observed in section 4.3. We observe that even deep research agents remain fun-damentally narrative in their forecasting behavior. They gather more information and produce longer syntheses, but the final probability is still typically attached to the end of a prose-based discussion rather than derived through an explicit probabilistic decomposition. We provide additional qualitative comparisons in Appendix C. 

4.5 Comparison with Time Series Forecasting 

Our evaluation setting follows that of prediction markets: the agent is given only a forecasting ques-$0.40 $0.60 $1.00 $1.50 $2.00 

> Cost per question (USD, log scale)
> 0.12 0.14 0.16 0.18 0.20 0.22
> Brier score
> o4-mini-deep-research smolagents-deep-research o3-deep-research AuditForecast
> Market-Implied
> Audit Forecast smolagents -DR o3 -DR o4-mini -DR
> 0510 15 20 25 30
> # web searches per question

Figure 5: Comparison with deep research agents. Left: 

Brier score ( ↓) versus cost per question. Right: average number of web searches per question. 

tion and its resolution rule, rather than a large vol-ume of pre-processed time-series data. The task therefore primarily evaluates the agent’s ability to autonomously search for relevant information and reason about it. Time-Series Foundation Models (TSFMs), in contrast, typically require historical time-series data as input. To enable a comparison with this class of methods, we therefore prepare the relevant one-year historical time series for each of the 369 value-threshold questions in the Polymar-ket subset and evaluate Chronos-2 (Ansari et al., 2025) and TimesFM (Das et al., 2024) against A U-

DIT FORECAST with GPT-5.4. For each question, we derive the event probability from the predic-tive quantiles produced by the TSFM. As shown in table 3, A UDIT FORECAST outperforms both TSFMs. TSFMs are restricted to modeling a fixed historical time series, whereas A UDIT FORECAST 

is more flexible in both information acquisition and model construction. Notably, the base probability produced by A UDIT FORECAST alone already sur-passes both TSFMs. Moreover, prediction-market events are often driven by real-time developments and news, which purely time-series-based models cannot capture. 

Method Threshold Forecast 

Chronos-2 0.1237 TimesFM 0.1241 

AuditForecast p0 0.0980 

AuditForecast 0.0938 

Table 3: Brier score ( ↓) on value-threshold forecasts. 

4.6 Component-Level Ablation Study 

In this section, we conduct component-level abla-tions using GPT-5.4 on 37 Polymarket forecasting events that resolved by July 10. 

Model-guided retrieval. We compare our model-guided retrieval strategy against a retrieval-then-modeling variant, which first performs open-ended retrieval and then constructs a quantitative model Method Avg. Web Searches p0 Brier ( ↓)Model-guided retrieval 11.7 0.0802   

> Retrieval-then-modeling 23.9 0.0882
> Table 4: Ablation of model-guided retrieval.

based on the retrieved information. As shown in table 4, model-guided retrieval requires substan-tially fewer web searches while producing a more accurate estimate of the base probability p0. With-out an explicit model to guide the search, retrieval tends to collect more redundant or irrelevant infor-mation. Moreover, because the subsequent model is constrained by the information obtained during this unguided retrieval stage, it is more likely to yield a suboptimal quantitative baseline. These re-sults support our design choice of constructing the model first and using its information requirements to guide targeted retrieval. 

Scope / independence checking and odds aggre-gation. We further ablate scope checking and in-dependence checking individually. To evaluate the aggregation mechanism, we compare odds-space aggregation against two alternatives: (1) 

narrative aggregation , where the agent directly integrates all factor evidence into a final proba-bility without an explicit aggregation rule, and (2) probability-space aggregation , which applies signed additive adjustments directly in probabil-ity space, p = p0 + P 

> i

δi. As shown in table 5, the full A UDIT FORECAST pipeline achieves the best Brier score, and removing or replacing any individual component degrades forecasting perfor-mance. In particular, odds-space aggregation has several advantages over direct probability-space ad-dition. An additive adjustment of a fixed magnitude changes the forecast equally regardless of the base probability, whereas an odds-space update natu-rally induces a probability shift that depends on p0.Probability-space addition can also produce values outside [0 , 1] , while multiplying likelihood ratios preserves a valid probability after conversion back from odds space. These results support the use of scope checking, independence checking, and odds-space aggregation as complementary components of the forecasting scaffold. 

5 Auditing Forecast Construction 

In this section, we use the structured decomposition of A UDIT FORECAST to audit intermediate reason-ing components and expose forecasting-specific be-haviors hidden by unstructured scaffolds. We first       

> Method Brier ( ↓)AUDIT FORECAST 0.0764
> w/o scope checking 0.0817 w/o independence checking 0.0824 Narrative aggregation 0.0815 Probability-space aggregation 0.0807
> Table 5: Ablation of scope checking, independence checking, and aggregation.

examine base-probability derivation in section 5.1, and then analyze factor updates in section 5.2. 

5.1 Auditing Base Probability Derivation 

For base-probability derivation, we focus on three questions: (1) when appropriate, do agents esti-mate p0 through quantitative modeling? (2) for questions of the same type, do agents converge on the same modeling method? and (3) even when the modeling method is shared, do agents retrieve the same data source to instantiate it? To analyze and illustrate these questions, we focus primarily on Polymarket stock price range questions under the GPT-5.4 backbone. 

Base Probability Hierarchy Extraction. To ana-lyze how agents construct p0, we induce a taxon-omy of p0 computations using an LLM-as-judge. Our scaffold logs each p0 in a structured form recording the modeling method and the associated data sources. We then present these records to the judge in incremental batches, allowing it to sum-marize and refine the taxonomy over time. The resulting hierarchy has two levels: Level 1 cap-tures the modeling method, and Level 2 captures the data source supplying the key input. A second LLM judge then independently assigns each record to a leaf node under the finalized hierarchy. More details are provided in Appendix D.1. 

Auditing Results. Our statistics show that, for stock range forecasting, 91.8% of forecasts use the 

Parametric CDF method, in which the asset price at resolution is assumed to follow a parametric dis-tribution (typically a zero-drift lognormal), and p0

is computed by evaluating the cumulative distri-bution function (CDF) at the question threshold. While A UDIT FORECAST stabilizes agents’ choice of modeling method for forecasting questions of the same type, we find that agents still diverge in their choice of data source for instantiating the model. As shown in fig. 6 (left), within the Para-metric CDF modeling family, agents primarily split among implied volatility, realized volatility, and deliberate combinations of the two when selecting Data Source within Parametric CDF 

> Realized Volatility (RV) 37.0% Blended IV + RV 15.4% Others 8.6% Implied Volatility (IV) 39.0%

Figure 6: GPT-5.4 under A UDIT FORECAST on stock range forecasts. Left: Data-source distribution within the Parametric CDF method for p0. Right: Brier score of the dominant data-source subtypes. 

the volatility input. Furthermore, fig. 6 (right) re-ports the Brier score of each dominant data-source subtype against the Market-Implied reference on the matched question subset. All three subtypes’ 

p0 achieve lower Brier scores than Market-Implied, indicating that the Parametric CDF template, when instantiated with any reasonable volatility input, yields a competitive base probability. 

> Findings on Base-Probability Derivation

AUDIT FORECAST induces agents to use suit-able quantitative models. For questions of the same type, agents tend to converge on the same modeling method while still diverging in the data source used to instantiate that model. 

5.2 Auditing Factor Updates 

Once a forecasting event is resolved, we can audit factor updates by comparing the agent’s factor-level judgments against the realized event trajectory. We focus on two questions: (1) whether the assigned odds multipliers have appropriate direction and magnitude, and (2) whether the agent misses impor-tant drivers of the event. As a representative subset, we again focus on stock range questions with GPT-5.4 as the backbone, where macro conditions can materially affect market dynamics. We first use an LLM judge to reconstruct the realized event trajec-tory between forecast run time and final resolution, and then compare it against the factor updates pro-duced by A UDIT FORECAST . Additional auditing procedure details are deferred to Appendix D.2. 

Auditing Results. Figure 7 summarizes the factor-level auditing results. We find that A UDIT FORE - 

> CAST

with GPT-5.4 produces largely sound factor updates: 73% of factor directions are correct, and 66% of factor magnitudes are well calibrated. This helps explain why factor updates improve forecast-ing accuracy beyond the base probability derived from quantitative modeling alone. For factor mag-nitude, the middle plot of fig. 7 shows a clear asym-Correct 73% Wrong 27% Well-calibrated 66% Overstated 28% 

> Understated 6%
> Captured 74% Missed 26%

Figure 7: Factor auditing results for A UDIT FORECAST 

on stock range questions with GPT-5.4 as the backbone. 

metry: the GPT-5.4 agent rarely under-reacts to realized signals, while overstated factors occur sub-stantially more often than understated ones. The post hoc judge can also identify realized factors that the agent failed to include. Here we focus only on obtainable missing factors, i.e., factors sup-ported by information already available at run time, since some signals emerge only after the forecast is made. As shown in fig. 7 (right), the agent captures most factors (74%), but a nontrivial fraction is still missed. We observe two specific failure modes. First, some signals are retrieved but not elevated into explicit factors. For example, across stock fore-casts resolving on 2026-04-22, the agent includes an Iran-ceasefire-related macro factor in only about half of the forecasts, even though this news was a dominant driver of the broad market rally and was often mentioned in the search summary. Sec-ond, some factors require cross-source synthesis beyond a single-asset search, such as sector-level co-movement; these signals are individually retriev-able but distributed across heterogeneous sources. 

> Findings on Factor Updates

AUDIT FORECAST produces largely sound fac-tor updates in both direction and magnitude, helping explain the gains over base-probability-only forecasting. At the same time, the GPT-5.4 agent tends to overstate some situational factors and miss some obtainable factors, espe-cially those requiring cross-source synthesis. 

6 Conclusion 

We propose A UDIT FORECAST , a structured scaf-fold for agentic forecasting that decomposes each forecast into a model-derived base probability and situational factor updates. Across multiple live benchmarks, A UDIT FORECAST consistently im-proves accuracy over strong agentic baselines and market-implied references. By producing an au-ditable forecasting report, it also supports system-atic post hoc analysis. We hope this work provides a useful foundation for building forecasting agents that are more accurate and transparent. Limitations 

The structured decomposition introduced by A U-

> DIT

FORECAST supports explicit forecast construc-tion and produces an auditable forecasting report, which in turn enables rich post hoc analysis. In this work, such analysis already exposes several useful findings about current agentic forecasting systems. For example, as shown in Section 5, dif-ferent data sources used to instantiate the same base-probability model can lead to different fore-casting accuracy, and agents may systematically overlook certain classes of signals during situa-tional factor identification. At the same time, while AUDIT FORECAST makes such behaviors visible, it does not yet systematically convert them into reusable improvements to the forecasting system itself. An important direction for future work is therefore to make this analysis more systematic and comprehensive: identifying recurring failure modes in model selection, data retrieval, and factor updating, and feeding these patterns back into the forecasting scaffold as reusable experience. We expect such a loop to be important for building a more self-evolving agentic forecasting system. 

Ethical Considerations 

Forecasting agents may influence real-world deci-sions in domains such as finance, politics, and pub-lic affairs. Although A UDIT FORECAST improves transparency by making forecast construction ex-plicit and auditable, it does not guarantee correct-ness or eliminate bias in the underlying models, retrieved information, or probabilistic judgments. We therefore view A UDIT FORECAST as a decision-support tool rather than a substitute for expert judg-ment, especially in high-stakes settings. The struc-tured forecasting report may help users inspect how a forecast was constructed, but it should not be in-terpreted as a guarantee of reliability. More broadly, we believe that making forecasting outputs more explicit and auditable is an important step toward safer deployment, as it enables closer scrutiny of agent behavior and facilitates post hoc analysis when failures occur. 

Acknowledgements 

We thank the anonymous reviewers for their valu-able feedback and helpful suggestions. 

References 

Abdul Fatir Ansari, Oleksandr Shchur, Jaris Küken, An-dreas Auer, Boran Han, Pedro Mercado, Syama Sun-dar Rangapuram, Huibin Shen, Lorenzo Stella, Xiyuan Zhang, Mononito Goswami, Shubham Kapoor, Danielle C. Maddix, Pablo Guerron, Tony Hu, Junming Yin, Nick Erickson, Prateek Mutalik Desai, Hao Wang, and 4 others. 2025. Chronos-2: From univariate to universal forecasting. Preprint ,arXiv:2510.15821. Fischer Black and Myron Scholes. 1973. The pricing of options and corporate liabilities. Journal of political economy , 81(3):637–654. Nikhil Chandak, Shashwat Goel, Ameya Prabhu, Moritz Hardt, and Jonas Geiping. 2025. Scaling open-ended reasoning to predict the future. arXiv preprint arXiv:2512.25070 .Abhimanyu Das, Weihao Kong, Rajat Sen, and Yichen Zhou. 2024. A decoder-only foundation model for time-series forecasting. In Proceedings of the 41st International Conference on Machine Learning , vol-ume 235 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Re-search , pages 10148–10167. PMLR. Mingxuan Du, Benfeng Xu, Chiwei Zhu, Xiaorui Wang, and Zhendong Mao. 2025. Deepresearch bench: A comprehensive benchmark for deep research agents. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.11763 .Google. 2025. Agent Development Kit (ADK). Danny Halawi, Fred Zhang, Chen Yueh-Han, and Jacob Steinhardt. 2024. Approaching human-level fore-casting with language models. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , 37:50426–50468. Rob J Hyndman and George Athanasopoulos. 2018. 

Forecasting: principles and practice . OTexts. Kalshi. 2026. Kalshi. Ezra Karger, Houtan Bastani, Chen Yueh-Han, Zachary Jacobs, Danny Halawi, Fred Zhang, and Philip E Tet-lock. 2025. Forecastbench: A dynamic benchmark of ai forecasting capabilities. In International Con-ference on Learning Representations , volume 2025, pages 93943–93980. Junteng Liu, Yunji Li, Chi Zhang, Jingyang Li, Aili Chen, Ke Ji, Weiyu Cheng, Zijia Wu, Chengyu Du, Qidi Xu, and 1 others. 2025. Webexplorer: Ex-plore and evolve for training long-horizon web agents. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2509.06501 .Junyu Luo, Weizhi Zhang, Ye Yuan, Yusheng Zhao, Junwei Yang, Yiyang Gu, Bohan Wu, Binqi Chen, Ziyue Qiao, Qingqing Long, and 1 others. 2025. Large language model agent: A survey on method-ology, applications and challenges. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.21460 .Bruno Monteiro and Rodrigo Dal Borgo. 2023. Sup-porting decision making with strategic foresight: An emerging framework for proactive and prospective governments. OpenAI. 2025a. Introducing deep research. OpenAI. 2025b. OpenAI Agents SDK. Polymarket. 2026. Polymarket. ProphetArena. 2026. ProphetArena Leaderboard: Agent Forecasting. Rafael Rafailov, Archit Sharma, Eric Mitchell, Christo-pher D Manning, Stefano Ermon, and Chelsea Finn. 2023. Direct preference optimization: Your language model is secretly a reward model. Advances in neural information processing systems , 36:53728–53741. David E Rapach and Guofu Zhou. 2013. Forecasting stock returns. handbook of economic forecasting, 2 (part a), graham elliott and allan timmermann. Aymeric Roucher, Albert Villanova del Moral, Merve Noyan, Thomas Wolf, and Clémentine Fourrier. 2025. Open-source deepresearch – freeing our search agents. Hugging Face Blog. Timo Schick, Jane Dwivedi-Yu, Roberto Dessì, Roberta Raileanu, Maria Lomeli, Eric Hambro, Luke Zettle-moyer, Nicola Cancedda, and Thomas Scialom. 2023. Toolformer: Language models can teach themselves to use tools. Advances in neural information process-ing systems , 36:68539–68551. Philipp Schoenegger, Cameron R Jones, Philip E Tet-lock, and Barbara Mellers. 2025. Prompt engineer-ing large language models’ forecasting capabilities. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.01578 .Philipp Schoenegger and Peter S Park. 2023. Large language model prediction capabilities: Evidence from a real-world forecasting tournament. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.13014 .Philipp Schoenegger, Indre Tuminauskaite, Peter S Park, Rafael Valdece Sousa Bastos, and Philip E Tetlock. 2024. Wisdom of the silicon crowd: Llm ensemble prediction capabilities rival human crowd accuracy. 

Science Advances , 10(45):eadp1528. Benjamin Turtel, Danny Franklin, and Philipp Schoenegger. 2025a. Llms can teach themselves to better predict the future. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.05253 .Benjamin Turtel, Danny Franklin, Kris Skotheim, Luke Hewitt, and Philipp Schoenegger. 2025b. Outcome-based reinforcement learning to predict the future. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.17989 .Xinlei Wang, Maike Feng, Jing Qiu, Jinjin Gu, and Jun-hua Zhao. 2024. From news to forecast: Integrating event analysis in llm-based time series forecasting with reflection. Advances in Neural Information Pro-cessing Systems , 37:58118–58153. John Yang, Carlos E Jimenez, Alexander Wettig, Kilian Lieret, Shunyu Yao, Karthik Narasimhan, and Ofir Press. 2024. Swe-agent: Agent-computer interfaces enable automated software engineering. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , 37:50528– 50652. Qingchuan Yang, Simon Mahns, Sida Li, Anri Gu, Jibang Wu, and Haifeng Xu. 2026. LLM-as-a-prophet: Understanding predictive intelligence with prophet arena. In The Fourteenth International Con-ference on Learning Representations .Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak Shafran, Karthik R Narasimhan, and Yuan Cao. 2023. React: Synergizing reasoning and acting in language models. In The Eleventh International Conference on Learning Representations .Zhiyuan Zeng, Jiashuo Liu, Siyuan Chen, Tianci He, Yali Liao, Yixiao Tian, wangjinpeng.levi, Zaiyuan Wang, YangYang, Lingyue Yin, Mingren Yin, Zhu Zhenwei, Tianle Cai, Xinjie Chen, Zehui Chen, Jiecao Chen, Yantao Du, Xiang Gao, Jiacheng Guo, and 13 others. 2026. Futurex: An advanced live benchmark for LLM agents in future prediction. In 

The Fourteenth International Conference on Learn-ing Representations .A Bayesian Derivation 

Let Y ∈ { YES , NO } denote the binary event out-come, and let E = ( E1, . . . , E n) denote the ev-idence associated with a set of validated factors. Applying Bayes’ rule gives 

P (Y = YES | E) = P (E|Y =YES) P (Y =YES)   

> P(E)

, (7) 

P (Y = NO | E) = P (E|Y =NO) P (Y =NO)   

> P(E)

. (8) Taking the ratio of eqs. (7) and (8) yields      

> P(Y=YES |E)
> P(Y=NO |E)

= P (E|Y =YES)    

> P(E|Y=NO)

· P (Y =YES)    

> P(Y=NO)

. (9) Define the odds of the YES outcome as 

odds( Y = YES) = P (Y =YES)    

> P(Y=NO)

. (10) Then eq. (9) can be written as             

> odds( Y= YES |E) = odds( Y= YES) ·P(E|Y=YES)
> P(E|Y=NO) .

(11) showing that posterior odds equal prior odds mul-tiplied by a likelihood-ratio term. If the evidence variables are conditionally independent given the event outcome, then 

P (E | Y = YES) = Qni=1 P (Ei | Y = YES) . (12) and similarly, 

P (E | Y = NO) = Qni=1 P (Ei | Y = NO) . (13) Substituting eqs. (12) and (13) into the likelihood-ratio term in eq. (11) gives                             

> P(E|Y= YES)
> P(E|Y= NO) =
> Qni=1 P(Ei|Y= YES)
> Qni=1 P(Ei|Y= NO) =
> nY
> i=1
> P(Ei|Y= YES)
> P(Ei|Y= NO) .

(14) Define the factor-level likelihood-ratio term 

LR i = P (Ei|Y =YES)    

> P(Ei|Y=NO)

. (15) Then the posterior odds become       

> odds( Y= YES |E) = odds( Y= YES) Qni=1 LR i.

(16) In A UDIT FORECAST , the agent instantiates the prior odds through a quantitative-model-derived base probability p0,

o0 = p0 

> 1−p0

. (17) and the final odds and probability are therefore written as 

o = o0

Qni=1 LR i, p = o 

> 1+ o

. (18) 

B Additional Experimental Details 

B.1 Evaluation Datasets 

In this section, we describe the construction of the evaluation datasets in detail. To avoid contamina-tion, all forecasting questions in our evaluation set remained unresolved at test time. We primarily draw questions from two public prediction plat-forms, Polymarket (Polymarket, 2026) and Kalshi (Kalshi, 2026), as well as one forecasting bench-mark, FutureX (Zeng et al., 2026). For Polymar-ket, we directly collect high-attention questions from the platform website 1. For Kalshi, we re-trieve questions through the data API 2 provided by ProphetArena (Yang et al., 2026). FutureX main-tains and releases forecasting questions on a weekly basis, organized into four difficulty levels. Among them, Levels 3 and 4 contain open-ended questions. Since our work focuses on binary-event probabil-ities, we primarily use the Level 1 and Level 2 multiple-choice questions and convert them into independent binary forecasting problems. To pre-vent duplicated forecasting questions across data sources, we perform a redundancy check over the full evaluation set to remove overlaps. The overall evaluation window spans April–May 2026, and for all questions the time between forecast run time and final resolution is within one week. Because different foundation models were evaluated at dif-ferent times, their resulting evaluation sets are not perfectly identical. We report the corresponding dataset statistics in table 6.                 

> Model Polymarket Kalshi FutureX Total
> GPT-5.4 562 220 49 831 GPT-5.4-mini 562 220 49 831 Gemini-3-flash 391 251 67 709

Table 6: Dataset statistics. 

B.2 Agentic Scaffold Implementation 

We implement the agentic scaffold A UDIT FORE - 

> CAST

using the OpenAI Agents SDK (OpenAI, 2025b) and Google’s Agent Development Kit (Google, 2025), together with their respective hosted web-search tools, WebSearchTool and 

google_search . The code is available at https: //github.com/CaoYuanpu/AuditForecast . We do not impose an explicit limit on the number of search calls. Our scaffold adopts a single-agent setup: the prompt explicitly specifies the stages of the forecasting process and the objective of each 

> 1https://polymarket.com/
> 2https://prophetarena.co/developer

stage, while an output schema is enforced to pro-duce a structured forecasting report. Below, we provide the concrete prompts and the correspond-ing Pydantic implementation of the output schema. We begin with the system prompt, which provides the agent with a structured decomposition of fore-casting into a base probability, situational factors, and their aggregation rules: 

AUDIT FORECAST System Prompt System prompt: You are a probabilistic forecasting ana-lyst with web search and code execution capabilities. Given a forecasting question, your task is to produce a cal-ibrated probability estimate using a structured Bayesian approach: derive a base probability ( p0), identify inde-pendent factors not captured by p0, and combine them via odds multiplier updates. 

BASE PROBABILITY ( p0)

p0 is the baseline probability of YES under the default expected trajectory from the current state to the reso-lution date, before incorporating additional factors. To estimate p0, use whatever method is most appropriate for the question: • If a quantitative model naturally applies, compute it and use it as the primary anchor. Python execution is available via the shell for numerical calculations. • If no quantitative model applies, estimate p0 from the best available qualitative assessment of the current situation. In all cases, state the method, the data inputs, and the key assumptions. 

FACTORS 

Factors are case-specific developments or conditions not already captured by p0 that could meaningfully shift the outcome. Each factor must satisfy: 1. Outside p0’s scope – the method used to derive p0

does not already account for it. 2. Supported by evidence – concrete, current evidence exists (found through web search). 3. Independent – it does not share a causal mechanism with another listed factor. If two candidate factors trace back to the same root cause, merge them into one. For each factor: – search for concrete evidence – assess how the evidence shifts the odds of YES (direc-tion and magnitude) – express the impact as an odds multiplier ( >1 favors YES, <1 favors NO, 1 = neutral). 

BAYESIAN UPDATE 

Combine p0 and all factor updates mechanically: 

o0 = p0/(1 − p0)

ofinal = o0 · LR 1 · · · LR n

pfinal = ofinal /(1 + ofinal )

Use code execution for the arithmetic to avoid rounding errors. Show the full calculation. 

The user prompt mainly includes the binary event forecasting question, the corresponding resolution rules specifying how the market is settled, the cur-rent time, and the expected event resolution dead-line, when available. 

AUDIT FORECAST User Prompt User prompt: 

Forecasting question: “{ binary question }” Resolution criteria: {resolution rules describing how the market is settled }Close date: { YYYY-MM-DD }Current date: { YYYY-MM-DD, the run-time anchor }Task: 1. Search for relevant information. 2. Derive the base probability p0 using the most appro-priate method. State the method, inputs, and assump-tions. Use code execution if a quantitative model applies. 3. Identify independent factors outside p0’s scope. For each, search for evidence and assess its impact as an odds multiplier. 4. Compute the final probability via Bayesian update: 

o0 · Q 

> i

LR i → pfinal . Use code execution for the arithmetic. Return a JSON object matching the provided schema. 

To further ensure that the agent follows the pro-posed forecasting workflow and ultimately pro-duces auditable forecasting outputs, we explicitly define its output schema: 

from pydantic import BaseModel class Factor (BaseModel ): # concise factor name name: str 

# justification it lies outside p0's scope why_not_in_p0: str 

# concrete facts found via web search evidence: str 

# how evidence shifts odds (direction & magnitude) assessment: str 

# >1 favors YES, <1 favors NO, 1 = neutral odds_multiplier: float class AuditForecastOutput( BaseModel ): # overview of retrieved information search_summary: str 

# method, data inputs, key assumptions p0_reasoning: str 

# base probability of YES, in [0, 1] p0: float 

# base odds = p0 / (1 - p0) o0: float 

# independent factors outside p0's scope. # factors sharing a causal mechanism # should be merged into a single factor. factors: list [Factor ]# o0 * LR_1 * ... * LR_n = o_final trace bayesian_update: str 

# final probability after factor updates prob_yes: float C Qualitative Case Comparison: Deep Research Agents vs. A UDIT FORECAST 

Here we provide a detailed qualitative comparison between the forecasting reports produced by sev-eral deep-research agent systems and A UDIT FORE -

CAST on the same forecasting task. Specifically, we present outputs from o4-mini-deep-research, o3-deep-research, smolagents-deep-research with GPT-5.4, and A UDIT FORECAST with GPT-5.4. We observe that all three deep-research agents success-fully collect a wide range of relevant evidence, in-cluding distributional anchors (e.g., spot price ver-sus threshold) and distinctions between longer-term and shorter-term signals. However, they all remain at the level of prose narrative. They identify evi-dence but do not quantify it, weigh evidence but do not combine it mechanically, and jump from quali-tative conclusions to specific probabilities without revealing the intermediate mapping. As a result, they incur substantial search cost while still pro-ducing suboptimal forecasting accuracy. By con-trast, A UDIT FORECAST provides an explicit path from evidence to forecast probability through a structured decomposition of base probability and factor-level updates. 

o4-mini-deep-research Question: 

Will Apple (AAPL) close above $300 on May 19? 

Ground truth: No 

Predicted probability: 0.75 

Web searches: 33 

Output report: 

Apple’s stock has been on a strong upward run in recent weeks. After its May 1 earnings beat (revenue $111B, well above expectations) and guidance raise, Apple announced a dividend bump and $100B buyback, which lifted investor sentiment. Technical indicators are also bullish. As of mid-May, Apple was trading in a confirmed uptrend above its key moving averages, with “consistent higher highs since March 2026,” and momentum (RSI) in overbought territory, reflecting “robust bullish momentum” and rising volume. On May 13th the stock hit a new record intraday high of $300, only closing “just below $299” at the day’s end. All this suggests strong buying interest pushing AAPL higher. In fact, analysts like Bank of America have targets well above $300 (around $325) on decently positive catalysts (new chip deals, AI strategy coming at WWDC, expected foldable iPhone, etc.). In this context, and absent any sudden sell-off, the odds seem favorable that the May 19 closing price will exceed $300. (One caution is that markets can pull back after such a run — but there’s no obvious immediate negative catalyst.) Based on Apple’s recent breakout past $295 and the momentum into record highs, a “Yes” resolution is significantly more likely than “No” though not certain. 

o4-mini-deep-research (continued) FINAL_PROBABILITY: 0.75 o3-deep-research Question: 

Will Apple (AAPL) close above $300 on May 19? 

Ground truth: No 

Predicted probability: 0.45 

Web searches: 24 

Output report: Understanding the Question. The question asks for the probability that Apple will close above $300 on May 19, 2026. Since the current date is May 19 and the market closes today, we need to estimate the probability that Apple’s stock will end the day above $300, considering recent stock price, market conditions, news and events, analyst sentiment, and historical volatility. 

Current Price and Recent Performance. On the last trading day (May 18), Apple closed at $297.84. Specifically, a move of roughly $2.16 (about +0.7% from $297.84) by the end of the day would result in a “Yes” outcome. The May 18 close represented a 0.80% decline from the day prior, indicating that Apple had a modest pullback. Apple has been on an upward trajectory in 2026, reaching a 52-week high of $303.20 in recent weeks, meaning it has already flirted with levels just above $300. This underscores that $300 is a key resistance level the stock has been testing. 

Pro “Yes”: 

• Small gap to $300 (only +0.7% needed). • Upward momentum: stock has shown strong momen-tum in recent weeks, hitting new 52-week highs. • Strong fundamentals: recent earnings beat (revenue $113B, EPS $2.00, both above consensus). • Analyst optimism: many analysts have raised price targets above $300. • Historical frequency: 1% daily moves are common for AAPL. 

Pro “No”: 

• Recent pullback & overbought signal (RSI ∼75 on May 14) suggests short-term cool-off. • Market headwinds: rising oil prices and geopolitical tensions (S&P 500 fell −1.2%, Nasdaq −1.5% on May 18). • Resistance at $300: round-number resistance often requires fresh catalysts to break. If we assume Apple’s stock movement is roughly symmetric day-to-day with about a 1% standard deviation, the chance of a +0.7% or greater move on any given day (starting from no bias) would be on the order of 30–40%. Stocks have slightly more than 50% chance to be up on a given day in an upward-trending market, but for a specific threshold like $300, the baseline might be near 0.5 (50%) in neutral conditions. The strong upward momentum and optimism increase the odds of a “Yes”, but short-term market/headline risks reduce them. Without a clear new catalyst, it’s uncertain if buyers will push the stock past $300 by the close. In summary, an above $300 close on May 19 is a realistic possibility but not assured. It’s essentially a coin toss, o3-deep-research (continued) 

with current information slightly hinting that the stock might fall just short. Therefore, I will lean slightly below an even chance. 

FINAL_PROBABILITY: 0.45 smolagents-deep-research Question: 

Will Apple (AAPL) close above $300 on May 19? 

Ground truth: No 

Predicted probability: 0.43 

Web searches: 21 

Output report: 

AAPL appears to be right near the threshold, but the best available evidence slightly favors a finish below $300 rather than above it. The strongest verified data show a May 18 close of $297.84, with an intraday high above $300 that failed to hold, implying $300 is a real resistance level. A weak May 19 clue around $299.85 keeps Yes very much alive, but without a confirmed live or official close, a modestly sub-50% estimate is most reasonable. 

FINAL_PROBABILITY: 0.43 AUDIT FORECAST 

Question: 

Will Apple (AAPL) close above $300 on May 19? 

Ground truth: No 

Predicted probability: 0.19 

Web searches: 12 

Output report: Base Probability Derivation: 

• Model: zero-drift one-session lognormal model. • Inputs: overnight spot S0 = $296 .71 (Yahoo 1:08 a.m. EDT), threshold K = $300 , daily volatility blended from 20-day realized log-vol ( 1.468% /day) and option-implied vol (25 .28% annualized →

1.593% /day), giving σ1d = 1 .530% .• Assumptions: (1) one trading day to resolution, (2) zero ex ante directional drift, (3) approximately con-stant intraday volatility. • Calculation: z = ln(300 /296 .71) /0.01530 =0.721 , p0 = 1 − Φ( z) = 0.236 , odds 0 =

p0/(1 − p0) = 0 .308 .

Situational Factors: Factor 1: Weak overnight index futures. 

• Why not in p0: p0 assumes zero drift; it does not encode a cross-asset directional signal from index futures. • Evidence: Around 12:07 a.m. EDT, Nasdaq-100 futures were down 0.54%, S&P 500 futures down 0.30%, Dow futures down 0.18%; AAPL beta ≈ 1.06 .• Assessment: Modest NO — weak tape makes a 

∼1.1% rally and hold-into-close harder, but futures can reverse intraday. • Odds multiplier: LR 1 = 0 .85 .

Factor 2: Recent failure to hold above $300. AUDIT FORECAST (continued) 

• Why not in p0: p0 is memoryless (uses only spot and 

σ); it does not encode path-dependent resistance. • Evidence: AAPL traded above $300 intraday on May 13 ($300.92), 14 ($300.45), 15 ($303.20), 18 ($300.66), but closed above $300 only once (May 15, $300.23), falling back to $297.84 by May 18. • Assessment: Moderate NO — the contract resolves on the close, not intraday touch. Repeated intraday breaks followed by closes below signal supply/profit-taking at the strike. • Odds multiplier: LR 2 = 0 .78 .

Factor 3: Supportive Apple fundamentals and buy-back. 

• Why not in p0: p0 assumes zero drift; no company-specific directional bias from fundamentals. • Evidence: Apple’s April 30 print showed Q2 FY2026 revenue +17% YoY ($111.2B), diluted EPS +22% ($2.01), and authorized an additional $100B buyback; analyst average 12-month target $308.07. • Assessment: Mild YES — supportive backdrop can encourage dip-buying near $300, but the print is sev-eral weeks old, so only a small positive multiplier. • Odds multiplier: LR 3 = 1 .12 .

Aggregation: 

• Final odds: odds = odds 0 × LR 1 × LR 2 × LR 3 =0.308 × 0.85 × 0.78 × 1.12 = 0 .229 .• Final probability: p = odds /(1 + odds ) = 0 .186 .

FINAL_PROBABILITY: 0.19 

Below we present two complete A UDIT FORE -

CAST reports from the entertainment and sports domains. These examples highlight the versatility of the scaffold beyond market-style financial ques-tions: although the underlying anchors differ, the same structured forecasting workflow remains ap-plicable. The resulting reports provide a clear and auditable path from evidence to forecast probabil-ity, illustrating how A UDIT FORECAST generalizes across diverse forecasting domains while preserv-ing interpretability. 

AUDIT FORECAST 

Question: 

Will Olivia Dean have above 206M Streams on Luminate during April 24–April 30, 2026? 

Ground truth: Yes 

Predicted probability: 0.74 

Web searches: 6

Output report: Base Probability Derivation: 

• Model: anchor on the artist’s current Spotify daily run-rate and convert to a worldwide-streams distribu-tion via a platform-mix ratio. • Inputs: Kworb data show Spotify daily streams 

r = 21 .28 M/day, cumulative Spotify streams 6.56 B, AUDIT FORECAST (continued) 

monthly listeners 59.7 M (all as of Apr. 30, 2026). • Assumptions: (1) 7-day Spotify total ≈ r × 7 ≈

149 M, (2) Luminate worldwide streams are typically 

1.45 –1.55 × Spotify for an artist with this profile, (3) moderate variance around that ratio. • Calculation: Under that conservative distribution, 

p0 = Pr( worldwide streams > 206 M) ≈ 0.72 ,

odds 0 = p0/(1 − p0) = 2 .571 .

Situational Factors: Factor 1: Late-week cross-format momentum. 

• Why not in p0: The baseline only converts the current Spotify run-rate into a worldwide-stream estimate; it does not separately price extra lift from same-week Pop Airplay No. 1 status, top-five airplay, or the pub-licity surge from the 1 B-stream milestone and recent awards. • Evidence: Billboard (Apr. 24) reported “So Easy (To Fall in Love)” hit No. 1 on Pop Airplay for the May 2 chart and “Man I Need” remained top five; the two songs drew 13.9M and 11.2M chart-contributing U.S. streams in Apr. 10–16. Billboard (Apr. 22) reported “Man I Need” passed 1 B Spotify streams and that Dean swept major Grammy, BRIT, and MOBO hon-ors. • Assessment: Modestly favors YES — radio and pub-licity momentum can add non-Spotify streams and help the week finish above the cutoff, but the uplift should be incremental rather than dramatic because the baseline is already strong. • Odds multiplier: LR 1 = 1 .12 .

Aggregation: 

• Final odds: odds = odds 0 ×LR 1 = 2 .571 ×1.12 = 2.880 .• Final probability: p = odds /(1 + odds ) = 0 .742 .

FINAL_PROBABILITY: 0.74 AUDIT FORECAST 

Question: 

Will the Seattle Mariners beat the St. Louis Cardinals on April 24, 2026? 

Ground truth: Yes 

Predicted probability: 0.56 

Web searches: 4

Output report: Base Probability Derivation: 

• Model: early-season log5 baseline using overall win percentages with shrinkage toward .500 (the late-April sample is still small). • Inputs: ESPN records — Seattle 11–15 ( wSEA =0.423 ), St. Louis 14–10 ( wSTL = 0 .583 ). • Assumptions: (1) team strength is approximately captured by current win pct; (2) no venue or starter adjustment yet (handled as separate factors). • Calculation: p0 = wSEA (1 −wSTL ) 

> wSEA (1 −wSTL )+(1 −wSEA )wSTL

=0.47 , odds 0 = 0 .886 .

AUDIT FORECAST (continued) Situational Factors: Factor 1: Home/away split. 

• Why not in p0: p0 uses overall season strength, not the venue-specific split. • Evidence: Game is at Busch Stadium. Seattle is 1–8 on the road; St. Louis is 7–5 at home. • Assessment: Modestly favors St. Louis — Mariners have been notably weaker on the road, and the Cardi-nals are solid at home. • Odds multiplier: LR 1 = 0 .90 .

Factor 2: Starting-pitcher edge. 

• Why not in p0: p0 ignores today’s pitching matchup. • Evidence: Probable starters are George Kirby (3–2, 2.97 ERA) for Seattle vs. Andre Pallante (2–1, 4.05 ERA) for St. Louis. Kirby’s run-prevention metrics are materially stronger. • Assessment: Substantially favors Seattle — starter quality drives a large share of single-game variance. • Odds multiplier: LR 2 = 1 .60 .

Aggregation: 

• Final odds: odds = odds 0 ×LR 1 ×LR 2 = 0 .886 ×

0.90 × 1.60 = 1 .276 .• Final probability: p = odds /(1 + odds ) = 0 .561 .

FINAL_PROBABILITY: 0.56 

D Additional Auditing Details 

D.1 Base Probability Hierarchy Extraction 

For the collected auditable forecasting reports, we perform a statistical hierarchy extraction of the base-probability-derivation component. Specifi-cally, for forecasting questions of the same type, we aim to extract a two-level structure consisting of the quantitative modeling method and the corre-sponding data source used to instantiate that model. We primarily rely on an LLM-as-judge (GPT-5.4), together with human review for validation. Be-cause the sample size is large, we build and refine the hierarchy in an incremental batch-wise man-ner. We first sample 100 reports to initialize the two-level hierarchy, and then incorporate additional samples in multiple batches, allowing the judge to add new categories, split existing ones, or retain the current structure when appropriate. Below, we provide the concrete prompts. 

Hierarchy Extraction — Initial Batch Prompt 

Below are p0 model descriptions extracted from {n}

probabilistic forecasts on the SAME question type (single-stock close-above-threshold). Each entry shows: • model : the name of the computation method. • formula : the formula used to compute p0.Hierarchy Extraction — Initial Batch (continued) 

• input_sources : where each key input came from (e.g., spot price, volatility, threshold). Define a TWO-LEVEL hierarchy that covers all these entries: • Level 1 (method): ONLY the mathematical computa-tion approach. Two entries with the SAME formula but DIFFERENT data sources must be in the SAME Level 1. • Level 2 (data_source): Within each method, which data source provides the key inputs (especially the volatility / probability input). Granularity should re-flect meaningful differences in the data source. 

Codes: single capital letters for Level 1 (A, B, C, . . . ) and letter+digit for Level 2 (A1, A2, . . . ). 

Output ONLY the hierarchy with definitions. Do NOT assign entries to categories. 

Entries: {entries} 

Hierarchy Extraction — Incremental Batch Prompt 

You are maintaining a TWO-LEVEL hierarchy (method 

× data source) of p0 computations. 

Current hierarchy : {prev_hierarchy }

Below are {n} NEW entries (same question type as be-fore). Each entry shows: • model : the name of the computation method. • formula : the formula used to compute p0.• input_sources : where each key input came from. 

Task: review the new entries and produce an UPDATED hierarchy. Rules: • Keep existing codes (A, A1, A2, B1, . . . ) stable when-ever possible — downstream classification depends on code stability. • If every new entry already fits an existing category, return the hierarchy unchanged. • If some new entries reveal a method or data source not covered, ADD new codes. • If you discover an existing category was too coarse, you may split it — give new sub-codes or renumber carefully and note the change. Briefly describe what changed in the notes field. 

New entries: {entries} 

After the hierarchy is finalized, we use the judge again to independently assign each sample to its corresponding category in the hierarchy. The prompt is given below: 

Hierarchy Classification Prompt 

You are classifying a single p0 computation into the fol-lowing two-level hierarchy. 

Hierarchy: {hierarchy} 

Entry to classify: 

• question : {question} • model : {model} • formula : {formula} • input_sources : {input_sources} 

Task: pick the Level-2 code (e.g. “A1”, “B1”, “E2”) that 

Hierarchy Classification (continued) 

best fits this entry. • Use Level-1 codes alone only if no Level-2 sub-category fits. • If the entry is qualitative with no formula, prefer E1. • If it has a numeric p0 but the method is heuristic/dis-cretionary rather than an explicit model, prefer E2. Respond with the code and a brief rationale. 

D.2 Auditing Factor Updates 

For factor auditing, we first use an LLM judge with web search to investigate what actually happened between the forecast’s run_time and the resolution date, so as to obtain a comprehensive view of the event development. We then compare this recon-structed event trajectory against the agent’s forecast in order to audit whether each factor’s direction and magnitude are reasonable, and whether important factors that should have been captured are missing. We provide the concrete prompt below. 

Factor Audit — System Prompt 

You are auditing a probabilistic forecast after the res-olution date has passed. The forecast was produced by a Bayesian p0 + factor-update pipeline: p0 is a base-rate probability; each factor multiplies the odds by a likelihood ratio (LR); the final probability is p =

Ofinal /(1 + Ofinal ) with Ofinal = o0 · Q LR i.Your job: use the web_search tool to research what ac-tually happened between the forecast’s run_time and the resolution date, then output an audit with three parts: • event_development : narrative reconstruction of what occurred. • missing_factors : actual drivers the agent failed to identify. • factor_assessments : for each agent factor, a direction and magnitude verdict. 

Guidelines: 

• Use web search liberally: closing prices, intraday news, macro events (Fed, geopolitics, earnings), and anything that could have moved the asset between run_time and the close. • Direction is “correct” if the LR sign ( > 1 bullish, 

< 1 bearish) matches the post-hoc impact; “wrong” if reversed; “ambiguous” if no clear impact. • Magnitude is “reasonable” if the LR is in line with the actual post-hoc impact; “overstated”/“understated” if clearly too far / too small; “hard_to_judge” if a single observation does not allow assessment. • For each missing_factor , also judge whether evi-dence was obtainable at run_time (yes / no / partial) — events already known should be flagged yes ; truly unforeseeable shocks should be flagged no .• Do NOT recommend what the agent “should have done”; only assess. Factor Audit — User Prompt Question                           

> •question : {question} •run_time : {run_time} •resolved_yes : {resolved_yes}
> Agent search summary (what the agent saw at run_time): {search_summary}
> Agent p0
> •p0_reasoning : {p0_reasoning} •p0 : {p0} •o0 : {o0}
> Agent factors (one block per factor): •Factor i: [ LR i={odds_multiplier }] {name} •why_not_in_p0 : {why_not_in_p0} •evidence : {evidence} •agent_justification : {assessment}
> Agent final probability : {prob_yes}
> Task:
> • Use web_search to research what actually hap-pened between run_time and resolution close on
> {resolution_date }.• Output the structured JSON audit defined by the schema. factor_index uses the 1-based numbering shown above (Factor 1, Factor 2, . . . ).

D.3 Effectiveness of Independence Checking 

In section 4.6, we show that removing indepen-dence checking degrades forecasting accuracy. Here, we provide a more direct analysis of how the check reduces double counting by focusing on the subset of events for which correlated factors are merged, accounting for 43% of the evaluated events. As shown in table 7, without the check, the agent retains substantially more factors, allow-ing correlated signals to contribute separate mul-tiplicative updates in odds space. As a result, the total adjustment from the base probability becomes larger, leading to more overconfident forecasts and a worse Brier score.         

> With Check w/o Check
> Avg. # Factors 1.12 2.62 Avg. Factor Push ( |∆ log -odds |)0.153 0.244 Brier 0.088 0.104

Table 7: Effect of independence checking on factor retention, odds updates, and forecasting accuracy. 

We further audit double counting directly using an LLM judge that flags factors sharing a com-mon underlying driver. We use two judges stronger than the forecasting agent (GPT-5.4), GPT-5.6 and Claude-Opus-4.8. As shown in table 8, both judges report substantially lower double-counting rates when independence checking is enabled. Together,       

> Judge With Check w/o Check
> GPT-5.6 5.8% 12.7% Claude-Opus-4.8 8.7% 12.7%

Table 8: Double-counting rates under two LLM judges. 

these results show that independence checking mea-surably reduces double counting by limiting redun-dant factor retention and excessive odds updates. 

D.4 Generic Structured Scaffold 

A central motivation of A UDIT FORECAST is to make the forecasting process explicitly auditable, rather than merely exposing intermediate reason-ing in a structured format. One natural question is whether similar auditability could be obtained with a more generic structured-output scaffold that asks the agent to list evidence and assign weights, with-out imposing the baseline-plus-factor decomposi-tion used by A UDIT FORECAST . To examine this, we compare A UDIT FORECAST against a generic free-form structured scaffold. The baseline asks the agent to list relevant evidence, assign a weight to each item, and then use any self-chosen proce-dure to aggregate the weighted evidence into a final probability. We evaluate both methods on 149 live forecasting questions from Polymarket and Kalshi that resolved by July 10. As shown in table 9, A UDIT FORECAST consis-tently outperforms the free-form scaffold across both benchmarks and model backbones. More im-portantly, although the free-form scaffold also pro-duces structured JSON, its forecasts are substan-tially less auditable in practice. The agent almost always anchors its forecast at 0.5 and then applies linear adjustments using signed evidence weights. A representative output states: “I use a simple lin-ear adjustment model. Start from 0.50, then add the signed weights ... Final = 0.50 - 0.13 = 0.37.” Al-though this computation is explicit, the initial value of 0.5 acts as an implicit and unjustified baseline. It is not derived from a quantitative model of the default trajectory and therefore cannot be indepen-dently evaluated. Moreover, the evidence weights are not defined relative to a clearly specified base-line scope, making it difficult to attribute an error to the initial probability, evidence selection, or ev-idence weighting. In contrast, A UDIT FORECAST 

separately models and justifies the base probability 

p0, restricts factor updates to developments out-side the scope of the baseline model, and combines these updates through an explicit aggregation rule. Method Polymarket Kalshi         

> GPT-5.4
> Free-form scaffold 0.1241 0.1596
> AuditForecast 0.1151 0.1462
> GPT-5.4-mini
> Free-form scaffold 0.1244 0.2089
> AuditForecast 0.1157 0.1898

Table 9: Brier score ( ↓) on Polymarket and Kalshi. 

Its auditability therefore arises not merely from ex-posing intermediate fields, but from assigning each component a distinct forecasting role that can be inspected and evaluated independently. 

D.5 Stability Analysis 

We evaluate the stability of A UDIT FORECAST us-ing GPT-5.4 and GPT-5.4-mini on 50 Polymarket forecasting events that resolved before July 10. We consider both end-to-end variability across inde-pendent runs and the consistency of factor-level LRs across naturally occurring paraphrases. 

Variance under sampling. We run the full fore-casting pipeline five times with independent seeds on the same questions and measure the variabil-ity of the final predicted probabilities. The fore-casts are highly stable across runs: the average per-question standard deviation is 0.041 for GPT-5.4 and 0.039 for GPT-5.4-mini. Moreover, 94–96% of the questions have a standard deviation below 0.10, indicating that the final forecasts are largely reproducible under repeated sampling. 

Stability across naturally occurring factor para-phrases. Across independent runs, the agent often expresses semantically equivalent factors using dif-ferent wording. We use an LLM judge to group fac-tors from the five runs into semantically equivalent clusters, such as “expiration-day 320 strike mag-net” and “pinning at the 320 threshold on expiry,” and measure the consistency of the assigned likeli-hood ratios within each recurring factor cluster. As shown in table 10, factor directions are consistent across paraphrases in 86% and 88% of the clusters for GPT-5.4 and GPT-5.4-mini, respectively, while the variability of the assigned LRs remains small. Together, these results show that A UDIT FORECAST 

exhibits low end-to-end variability across repeated runs and maintains largely consistent factor-level updates across semantically equivalent descriptions.         

> Metric GPT-5.4 GPT-5.4-mini
> Direction consistency 86% 88% LR variability ( |log -LR |std.) 0.074 0.030

Table 10: Stability of likelihood ratios across naturally occurring factor paraphrases.