Title: High-speed time-series prediction using compact memristor circuits with adjustable dynamics

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2608.04856v1

Published Time: Thu, 06 Aug 2026 01:16:34 GMT

Number of Pages: 14

Markdown Content:
## High-speed time-series prediction using compact memristor circuits with adjustable dynamics 

D´ aniel Moln´ ar, 1, 2 J´ anos Volk Jr., 1 T´ ımea N´ ora T¨ or¨ ok, 1, 3 Zolt´ an Balogh, 1, 2 Nadia Jimenez Olalla, 4 Mikl´ os Csontos, 4 Juerg Leuthold, 4 and Andr´ as Halbritter 1, 2, ∗

> 1

Department of Physics, Institute of Physics, Budapest University of Technology and Economics, M˝ uegyetem rkp. 3., H-1111 Budapest, Hungary. 

> 2

HUN-REN-BME Condensed Matter Research Group, M˝ uegyetem rkp. 3., H-1111 Budapest, Hungary. 

> 3

Institute of Technical Physics and Materials Science, HUN-REN Centre for Energy Research, Konkoly-Thege M. ´ ut 29-33, 1121 Budapest, Hungary. 

> 4

Institute of Electromagnetic Fields, ETH Zurich, Gloriastrasse 35, 8092 Zurich, Switzerland. 

Ta 2O5 nonvolatile memristors are used as compact, traceable, and well-controllable dynamic reservoir computing layers to perform time-series prediction tasks. The strongly voltage-dependent switching speed is utilized for information processing. It enables the configuration of tailorable programming and forgetting times in response to the positive and negative driving voltage pulses. Benchmarking this framework on time-series prediction problems reveals that the configurable for-getting dynamics enables a high prediction accuracy using a rather small number of memristive input channels. The training is based either on optimizing the output layer using linear regression with fixed forgetting times, or on optimizing the forgetting times as well. In the first case, six mem-ristive channels, while in the second, only two memristive channels are used to demonstrate excellent prediction accuracy for the benchmark tasks. This scheme allows for the tunability of the operating frequency over many orders of magnitude: by adjusting the input voltage levels, the information processing speed of the same memristive dynamic layer can be increased from the kHz to the MHz range while maintaining excellent prediction accuracy. These findings demonstrate the merits of memristor based dynamic networks in the analysis, prediction and recovery of fast temporal signals, approaching telecommunication data rates. 

> Keywords: memristor, resistive switching, reservoir computing, dynamical system, tantalum pentoxide

Email Address: halbritter.andras@ttk.bme.hu 

INTRODUCTION 

Memristive devices have become central components in modern neuromorphic hardware due to their com-pact footprint,[1, 2] low-energy operation,[3–5] and compatibility with CMOS fabrication processes.[6–8] Their ability to store analog conductance states[8] and to emulate synaptic plasticity[9, 10] has en-abled a wide range of applications, including signal preprocessing,[11, 12] compression,[13, 14] sparse encoding,[15–17] classification,[18–20] feature extraction[21, 22] and combinatorial optimization.[23, 24] In most of these architectures, nonvolatile memristors arranged in crossbar arrays serve as static synaptic weights demonstrating impressive computational effi-ciency, particularly in accelerating deep neural network inference at low energy cost. The reliance on static weight programming, how-ever, introduces substantial overhead during the iterative weight update of the training process.[25] Furthermore, solving sufficiently complex problems requires large neu-ral networks that consist of many neural layers. Analyz- 

> ∗halbritter.andras@ttk.bme.hu

ing signals with temporal correlations also requires mem-ory functionality,[26] which in turn necessitates the use of recurrent neural networks with feedback connections.[27] This network complexity is illustrated in Fig. 1a1 with black/colored arrows for feedforward/feedback connec-tions. An alternative approach replaces network com-plexity with dynamic complexity .[28] In this case, the in-put data is first pre-processed by a dynamic reservoir layer, whose responses are aggregated into output values by a simple readout layer (see Fig. 1a2). Most hardware-based (physical) reservoir computing solutions, however, rely on a “black box”-like operation with little insight into the operational dynamics of the reservoir.[29–31] Memristive devices offer an excellent balance between complexity, traceability and controllability: thanks to their highly voltage-dependent switching speeds, they possess ideal dynamic properties for reservoir computing applications, while the operation of individual elements remains under control.[32–35]. As a result, a simple yet efficient memristive dynamic reservoir layer can be es-tablished (see illustration in see Fig. 1a3). So far mostly volatile memristors exhibiting resistance relaxation have been successfully exploited in reservoir computing appli-cations demonstrating time-series prediction and dynam-ical system reconstruction tasks.[32, 33, 36–40] In our previous work,[41] we demonstrated that a sin-gle nonvolatile Ta 2O5 memristor is capable of performing complex temporal signal recognition tasks, like the detec-arXiv:2608.04856v1 [cond-mat.mes-hall] 5 Aug 2026 2tion of neural spikes buried in high noise. Furthermore, two Ta 2O5 memristors with individually tuned forget-ting times are sufficient to learn and predict the evolu-tion of a nonlinear dynamical system with high accuracy. These functionalities rely on the so-called time-voltage dilemma, i.e. the exponential dependence of the switch-ing time on the applied bias (Fig. 1b). To achieve tunable forgetting using nonvolatile memristors, a novel driving method was introduced, where the incoming informa-tion is delivered to the system in the form of positive pulses of varying amplitude, while subsequent negative offset pulses enable an adjustable forgetting mechanism (Figs. 1c1-c4 and its detailed description later). By ad-justing this negative offset level, the memristive channels can be tuned to exhibit longer or shorter term memory operation. In the present study, we significantly extend this con-cept. We further exploit the extremely flexible tunability of the operation dynamics. We show that by adjusting the input voltage levels, the operating frequency of the very same memristive dynamic layer can be increased from the kHz to the MHz range. This approach lever-ages the observation that the exponential tunability of the switching time spans many orders of magnitude in the time-domain (Fig. 1b). This property allows the ef-fective memory time-scale of a memristor to be tuned continuously by adjusting the operating voltage, enabling a single device to encode temporal features across multi-ple, many orders of magnitude different timescales. Moreover, we demonstrate that this broad tunability of the dynamic properties is accompanied by an extremely simple training of the memristive reservoir computing network. We use memristive channels with fixed forget-ting times that differ slightly from channel to channel. This is in contrast to the pioneering work that applied identical, physically encoded forgetting times across 90 memristive channels. Furthermore, it also improves our previous approach, where a more complex optimization procedure was required to determine the optimal forget-ting times of the two memristive channels. Our current scheme establishes an optimized tradeoff between simple training (linear regression for the output linear combina-tion layer), and a small number of memristive channels. We evaluate the performance of our memristive reser-voir computing networks on three time-series prediction benchmark tasks of varying complexity, demonstrating that our present scheme provides excellent prediction ac-curacy using as few as 6 memristive channels. 

RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 

In the following, we first present the time-series predic-tion tasks used to test the predictive performance of our memristive reservoir computing scheme. Next, relying on Ref. 41, we illustrate how a single nonvolatile memristor       

> FIG. 1: The concept of our work. Instead of using complex neural networks with feedback connections (a1), or black-box-like dynamical reservoir computing layers (a2), we apply a compact memristive dynamical reservoir computing layer (a3) to perform time-series prediction tasks. A key feature of our approach is that we can tune the forgetting times of individual memristive chan-nels independently (gray arrows in a3). (b) The tunable forgetting times are enabled by the exponential dependence of the switching time on the applied voltage. The gray curve reproduces a trendline from the literature for Ta 2O5memristors,[42] spanning over 15 or-ders of magnitude in the time-domain, and further extrapolation to even shorter times (gray dashed line). The black dots represent our measurements on the Ta 2O5memristors used in this study. The black line demonstrates a good exponential fit to the data with a single exponent within the investigated time-domain. The red dots demonstrate the results of recent ultrafast time-resolved switching experiments on Ta 2O5memristors, also demonstrating the shortest achieved switching time (dashed horizontal line).[35] (c1) A novel driving scheme is applied using positive pulses for programming and an adjustable negative offset for forgetting. Depending on the applied offset level (right labels in c2-c4) the resistance of a sin-gle memristive channel exhibits short-term memory response (c2), longer-term memory response due to the middle, higher pulse (c3), or longer-term memory response already due to the first pulse (c3). See text for details.

3             

> FIG. 2: Illustration of the time series prediction scheme.
> Three mathematical dynamical systems (NARX, NARMA2, DYN3) are tested as benchmark tasks, all producing an y(k) out-put stream in response to a random u(k) input. This random input stream is encoded in the amplitudes of the positive programming pulses ( Vin ,i(k)), which are fed to the inputs of the various mem-ristive channels, each consisting of one memristor and one resistor in series. Forgetting is achieved by negative offset pulses ( Voffset ,i), which are independent of k, but are different for the different chan-nels ( i). The dynamical response of the of the memristors is read out as the Vout ,i(k) voltage on the series resistors along the read-out pulses. The predicted output ( ypredicted (k)) is calculated as the linear combination of the output voltages. The wiweights of the linear combination are optimized to achieve the best normalized mean squared error (NMSE) between the predicted output and the ground truth ( y(k)) for the training data, while the prediction ac-curacy is benchamrked by the NMSE for an independent validation data. In our study 9 memristive channels and 6 different negative offset voltages (different forgetting time-constants) are applied.

can be used as a complex dynamic system to implement both long-term and short-term memory behavior. We then present the architecture that enables time-series pre-diction by using multiple memristive channels, each with an individually configurable forgetting time. Afterwards, we demonstrate and analyze the results of our time series prediction analysis. Finally, we demonstrate how the op-eration of the memristive time series prediction system can be accelerated by three orders of magnitude – from the kHz to the MHz range – by rescaling the drive volt-ages. We studied three increasingly complex tasks to bench-mark the accuracy of our prediction strategy. All tasks can be described by a equation, where the kth state of a mathematical dynamical system y(k), is dependent on an input stream being a uniformly distributed random num-ber u(k) in the range of [0 , 0.5], and is also dependent on the previous states of the system y(k − i). The different complexity level of the 3 tasks comes from the addition of nonlinearities and adding more previous states to the equations, as listed below: 

y(k)NARX = y(k − 1) · (u(k) · 0.3 + 0 .2) + 0 .1 (1) 

y(k)NARMA2 = 0 .4y(k−1)+0 .4y(k−1) y(k−2)+0 .6u3(k)+0 .1(2) 

y(k)DYN3 = y(k − 1) · y(k − 2) · (y(k − 1) + 0 .25) 1 + y(k − 1) 2 + y(k − 2) 2 +u(k) (3) 

The first NARX equation (Nonlinear Autoregressive Exogenous Model)[43] is considered as an entry level task, where the output of the dynamical system only de-pends on the product of its previous state, y(k − 1), and an external random input. The second NARMA2 (Normalized Auto-Regressive Moving Average)[32] equation represents a harder task, where the next state of the system depends not only on its previous state, but also on the state before that, y(k −2). Furthermore the random input u(k) is cubed introducing an additional nonlinearity to the system. The third benchmark task[44] does not have a ded-icated name in the literature, so we call it Dynamical System 3 (DYN3). This task adds even more nonlinear-ity by including a fraction of the nonlinear combinations of the previous state and the state before that. Next, we illustrate the concept of using single non-volatile memristors as complex dynamical systems for in-formation processing.[41] The key property that enables dynamic complexity is the time-voltage dilemma charac-teristic of memristors, i.e., the exponential decrease in switching time in response to a linear increase in voltage: 

τ = 10 −(|Vbias |− B)/A , (4) where the A and B parameters may differ for different memristive systems. This type of behavior is demon-strated for our particular Ta 2O5 devices by the black measurement points in Fig. 1b (see the details of voltage-dependent switching time measurements in the ESI). The fitted exponential behavior (black line) is described by 

A = 0 .0415 and B = 1 .42 parameters. As references, the gray line demonstrates the trend fitted to measure-ments on similar Ta 2O5 devices[42] spanning a much broader range (15 orders of magnitude) in the time do-main, while the red dots show the results of our previous ultrafast time-resolved studies spanning the 80 ps - 15 ps time-range.[35] The latter, fastest resistive switching is illustrated by the red dashed line. These comparisons underpin the good agreement of our present (black) and previous (red) data with the broader trends reported in Ref. 42 (gray solid and dashed lines; the latter represent-ing an extrapolation to ranges beyond the bandwidth). Although the entire time range, covering 17 orders mag-nitude, cannot be described by a single exponential func-tion—and, in particular, the low- and high-frequency ranges correspond to different A and B parameters—the range relevant to this work (black dots) can be well ap-proximated by Eq. 4. It is to be noted, that the non-4volatile filamentary Ta 2O5 memristive devices applied in this work are identical to those in our previous studies, and therefore here only their voltage-dependent switch-ing times are discussed, and further details on the sample preparation and on the resistive switching properties are available in the ESI and in Refs. 41, 45. In the latter two references the same batch of samples were applied as in this work. Further characterization measurements with a special focus on the noise and the ultrafast switch-ing properties on our similarly prepared Ta 2O5 thin films and devices are also available in Refs. 35, 46, 47. Figs. 1c1 illustrates the driving scheme, which enables tunable forgetting using nonvolatile memristors. The in-coming information is programmed into the single mem-ristor and a series connected resistor in the form of pos-itive, variable amplitude driving pulses, while forgetting is achieved by a negative offset level. In the particular ex-ample of Fig. 1c1 the driving sequence includes four iden-tical pulses and a slightly higher pulse in the middle. The resistance response (Figs. 1c2-c4) of the memristor is sim-ulated according to the exponential voltage-dependence of the switching time (see details in Ref. 41) demonstrat-ing a strong dependence on the applied negative offset level. At higher offset, the effect of the programming pulses fades before the arrival of the next pulse (Fig. 1c2) due to rapid relaxation into the high-resistance state (HRS). At a moderate offset, the middle, higher pulse in-troduces a longer-lasting stay in the low-resistance state (LRS, see Fig. 1c3). At an even lower negative offset, already the first programming pulse drives the system into a long-lasting LRS (Fig. 1c4). Measurements per-forming the same behavior were reported in our previ-ous work.[41] It is to be emphasized that the program-ming and negative offset voltage levels are shared be-tween the memristor and the resistor in series, Rseries .This highlights the important role of the series resistor in the devices’ dynamic behavior: as the memristor’s re-sistance approaches the value of the series resistor, the memristor will sense reduced voltages from the driving sequence, which significantly slows down the program-ming and forgetting speeds. All these rich dynamical features enable nonvolatile memristors to act not merely as static weights but as nonlinear temporal signal pro-cessing units, enriching the computational repertoire of neuromorphic circuits. In the following, we test our memristive reservoir com-puting strategy, how accurately it can predict the output values of the previously described 3 dynamical systems. To this end, we use 9 different Ta 2O5 nonvolatile mem-ristive devices according to the scheme in Fig. 2, such that each memristor is considered as separate memris-tive input chanel. Each memristive channel receives the same Vin ,i(k) = Vin (k) = a·u(k)+ b random input stream such that the kth random value is encoded in the ampli-tude of the positive programming pulse (see Fig. 1c1). Here, i is the channel number, and the scaling factors are a = 1 V and b = 0 .5 V, which prove to be a suitable operating point for time-series prediction tasks when us-ing 1-ms-long driving pulses. Inbetween the positive pro-gramming pulses, all the memristive channels receive a negative offset voltage, Voffset ,i, which is independent of 

k. For all the memristors we use 6 different possible off-set levels, decreasing by -0.1 V from -1 V to -1.5 V. In addition to the variable positive programming pulses and the constant negative offset level, our pulsing scheme also includes a readout level of Vreadout after each program-ming pulse (see top left illustration in Fig. 2), which is always 0 .1 V for all the memristive channels. Note, that for the sake of simplicity this part is excluded from the conceptual illustration in Fig. 1c1, but this readout seg-ment is essential for measuring the state of the memris-tive channels during periods when the conductance of the memristors remains unchanged. For a given time step k,both the programming and the readout, as well as the negative offset pulses, last for 1 ms. Each memristor is connected in series with a resistor of Rseries = 1 kΩ. At timestep k the output of each memristive channel is taken as the Vout ,i(k) voltage measured on the series resistor of the given channel during the kth readout pulse. Finally, the aggregated output of the whole memristive reservoir computing scheme is calculated as a linear combination of the output voltages, ypredicted (k) = w0 + P 

> i

Vout ,i(k) · wi.Note, that the readout layer does not include any non-linear element, i.e. its optimization is a simple linear regression task. To achieve the best prediction accuracy, the response of the memristive layer to a training in-put, utraining (k) is measured, and the best-performing wi

weights of the readout layer are determined by linear re-gression, the latter being calculated in software. Finally, the prediction accuracy is quantified through the normal-ized mean squared error, NMSE=   

> P
> k(ypredicted (k)−y(k)) 2
> P
> k(y(k)) 2

in response to an independent, validation input data stream, uvalidation (k). Next, we investigate the prediction accuracy of our memristive reservoir computing scheme sketched in Fig. 2. To this end, we apply three different informa-tion processing approaches to all three prediction tasks. In Approach I we use 6 memristive input channels (i = 1.. 6), and we apply 6 different offset voltages: 

Voffset ,i = −0.9 V − i · 0.1 V. We assign a randomly selected memristor to each offset voltage, meaning we test 10 randomly selected combinations of choosing 6 out of the 9 memristive channels. The results are shown in Figs. 3a1,b1,c1, where the black lines demonstrate the y(k) mathematical output of the 3 dynamical sys-tems for the validation data sets (NARX in Fig. 3a1, NARMA2 in Fig. 3b1 and DYN3 in Fig. 3c1). This ground truth is compared to the predicted output us-ing 6 memristive channels, as demonstrated by the color lines in Figs. 3a1,b1,c1, where each figure shows 10 dif-ferent lines according to the chosen memristor combi-5

FIG. 3: The results of the time series prediction tasks using the NARX (a1,a2,a3), the NARMA2 (b1,b2,b3) and the DYN3 (c1,c2,c3) dynamical systems. In Approach I (a1,b1,c1) 6 memristive channels are applied, each using a different (but fixed) negative offset voltage for forgetting (-1 V, -1.1 V, -1.2 V, -1.3 V -1.4 V, -1.5 V). We assign different memristors, selected at random, to the six possible offset voltage levels listed above. The colored curves show the predicted output values for 10 different random selections of the 6 memristors, compared with the ground truth ( y(k), black lines). The average and minimum NMSE values are shown above the curves. In this approach solely the wi weights of the readout linear combination are optimized, and the forgetting times are fixed for the different channels. In Approach 2 (a2,b2,c2) only two, randomly selected memristive channels are used, but beside the wi weights the offset voltages (forgetting times) of the two channels are also optimized to achieve the best prediction accuracy. The prediction results for the 10 different random memristor selections are compared to the ground truth similarly to Approach I. In Approach III (a3,b3,c3) we calculate the NMSE values as a function of the number of memristive channels (N) such that both the N memristors and the corresponding offset values are randomly selected. For each N the NMSE is calculated for 100 random selections (colored points for a given N). The average NMSE values for Approach III are shown by the solid lines. As a comparison the average NMSE values are also shown for Approach I (dashed horizontal lines) and Approach II (dotted horizontal lines). 

nations. The minimal variation in the predicted outputs relative to one another, as well as their clear similarity to the ground truth, demonstrates the high accuracy of the predictions. This finding is further supported by the ex-cellent average and best NMSE values calculated for the validation data (see the NMSE values above the curves in Figs. 3a1,b1,c1). Note that in Approach I all the 6 memristive channels use a fixed offset voltage, which is is slightly different for each channel. This means that during training—that is, when fitting the parameters to a given time-series prediction task—we do not change the offset values; we only adjust the weights of the linear combination used in the readout layer to fit the selected problem. As a comparison to the previous approach, next we describe Approach II, where we randomly select 2 mem-ristors, but for these 2 memristors we check the predic-tion accuracy for all the possible 6 · 6 combinations of the offset values. Finally, we pick the combination, where the best prediction is obtained for the training dataset. The corresponding predicted outputs are shown by the color lines in Figs. 3a2,b2,c2 for the validation dataset 6in comparison to the ground truth (black line). Again, 10 random combinations are used to pick 2 out of the 9 memristive channels, the corresponding 10 predicted out-puts are shown by the colored curves plotted on top of each other. The corresponding average and best NMSE values are given above the curves. This approach involves adjusting not only the weights of the linear combination of the output layer during training, but also the negative offset values corresponding to the forgetting time. This is a more complex approach in terms of training than Ap-proach I, but thanks to the optimized forgetting times, fewer memristive channels need to be used and energized during inference, i.e. a more energy-efficient operation with smaller footprint is obtained. Comparing Approach I and II we can generally say, that the average NMSE of Approach I is slightly below to that of Approach II for the NARX and NARMA2 prob-lem, while Approach I gives a significantly better solution to DYN3 than Approach II. In this more complex DYN3 prediction task, it is already evident from a comparison of the curves in Fig. 3c1 (Approach I) and Fig. 3c2 (Ap-proach II) that the latter shows severe deviations from the true values (black line), while the former provides a substantially better prediction. This means that in Approach II, optimizing the forgetting times is not suf-ficient for an accurate prediction; that is, Approach I, which uses 6 memristors, not only simplifies training but the larger number of memristive channels is is fundamen-tally essential for an accurate prediction. The comparison of Approach I and II is especially interesting for the for the NARMA 2 problem, where two previous benchmark results are available from the literature.[32, 41] In the first paper[32] 90 volatile mem-ristors were applied for the time series prediction tasks achieving NMSE= 3 .13 · 10 −3. In that case the forget-ting times were non-tunable, i.e. different effective re-sponse times were achieved by the temporal rescaling of the input stream for the various channels. The sec-ond paper[41] represents our previous work, where only 2 memristive channels with well-tunable time-constants were applied (NMSE= 3 .03 · 10 −3). As an important conclusion, we can state that our approach, which uses 6 memristive channels with 6 fixed, different offset voltages, provides slightly better prediction accuracy for NARMA2 than the two previous approaches, which represent the two extremes (many channels with non-adjustable for-getting times, and only 2 channels with fully optimized forgetting times). Finally, we discuss Approach III, where we study the prediction accuracy as a function of the N number of memristive channels applied, and furthermore, we do not apply different offset values for each channel, rather the offset values are randomly selected in the −1.. − 1.5 V range, i.e. different channels may have the same offset. In particular, for each N we test 100 different combinations, such that one combination includes N randomly selected different memristors, and a random choice of the offset values for each memristive channel. By using this random selection, it is possible to test the extent to which predic-tion accuracy depends on the precise setting of dynamic parameters, and on the choice of the actual devices. The results are summarized in Figs. 3a3,b3,c3 by the colored dots. Even this random approach delivers rather good prediction accuracies once a sufficiently large number of memristive channels are used. For a quantitative com-parison, the solid lines in Figs. 3a3,b3,c3 show the av-erage NMSE values for Approach III as a function of N, while the reference average NMSE values taken from Ap-proach I/Approach II are shown by the horizontal dashed lines/dotted lines. For N=6, the random offset selection yields results similar to those of Approach I (6 channels with different offsets) for all tasks; while with a further increase in N, even better prediction accuracy than that of Approach I can be achieved. So far we have tested our memristive time-series pre-diction scheme at kHz clock frequency, i.e. using pro-gramming, readout and offset pulses with 1 ms lengths. However, the black line in Fig. 1b demonstrates that a small change of the operating voltage yields orders of magnitude faster switching times. Taking advantage of this property, we are now testing whether we can in-crease the speed of time-series prediction by three orders of magnitude, from the kHz range to the MHz range. To this end, we apply three orders of magnitude faster in-put signal, where the 1 ms long programming, readout and offset pulses (see purple pulse scheme in Fig. 4a) are replaced by 1 μs long ones (orange pulse scheme in Fig. 4a). To speed up the programming and forgetting of the memristive channels, the amplitude of the pro-gramming and offset pulses are increased by 0 .2 V (see the difference between the orange and purple curves in Fig. 4a). This faster operation required a somewhat mod-ified experimental setup, including a high-frequency cur-rent amplifier (see the ESI for the details). With this high-frequency driving scheme we measured the response of the 9 memristive channels at the 6 different offset val-ues in the [ −1.2, −1.7] V range, optimized the readout layer’s weights for the the best prediction accuracy, and evaluated the NMSE values for the validation dataset. The results of these studies are shown in Figs. 4b,c,d for Approach I, while the results for Approach II and III are provided in the ESI. Figs. 4b,c,d demonstrate that the prediction accuracy is even somewhat better compared to the case where the same problem was treated at 3 or-ders of magnitude lower frequency (Figs. 3a1,b1,c1). This means that by correctly selecting the operating voltage levels of the programming and the offset pulses, we can tune the dynamic properties of the memristive reservoir computing layer to the typical timescales of the problem to be solved, thereby allowing us to very easily change the operating frequency range—even by orders of magni-tude. 7ms                                 

> μskHz MHz
> w0+ΣiVout,i ·wiPrediction
> w1
> w2
> w9Small change of operating voltage Three ordes of magnitude increase in operating speed
> 0.13 0.14 0.15 0.16 Output (a.u.) 0.2 0.25 0.3 0.35 Output (a.u.) 010 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 k00.3 0.6 Output (a.u.) NARX: NMSE avg = 1.68 10 , NMSE min = 1.59 10 b) NARMA2: NMSE avg = 3.32 10 , NMSE min = 2.65 10 c) DYN3: NMSE avg = 1.40 10 , NMSE min = 1.26 10 d) a)
> FIG. 4: Memristive time series prediction at MHz clock frequency. (a) The scheme of the frequency-speed-up. Whereas in Fig. 3 the programming, offset and readout pulses were 1 ms long (see the purple input stream on the left side), here 1μslong pulse segments are applied (orange input stream on the left side). To speed up the programming and forgetting accordingly, the amplitudes of the programming and offset pulses are enhanced (see the difference between the orange and purple input streams). (b,c,d) The results of the time series prediction for the NARX (b), NARMA2 (c) and DYN3 (d) tasks using Approach II and 1 μs long driving pulse segments. The colored curves show the predicted out-put values for 10 different random selections of the 6 memristors, compared with the ground truth ( y(k), black lines). The average and minimum NMSE values are shown above the curves. The re-sults for Approach II and III are available in the ESI.

Finally, we note that, according to the red dots in Fig. 1b and Ref. 35 the device physics would enable even higher frequency operation, reaching frequencies above GHz. However, fully exploiting this potential requires either a sophisticated, impedance-matched measurement setup or, preferably, a higher level of integration, with all the necessary circuitry implemented on a single chip. 

CONCLUSIONS 

In conclusion, we presented a memristive reservoir computing scheme suitable for effective time series fore-casting. The input data are processed by a dynamic reservoir layer consisting of nonvolatile memristors. The predicted time series are generated from the outputs of this layer using a simple linear combination. To use non-volatile memristors as a dynamic reservoir suitable for tunable forgetting, we program the incoming information into the system in the form of positive pulses. Forget-ting is achieved with a negative offset. By exploiting the time-voltage dilemma characteristic of memristive sys-tems, we show that the dynamics of memristive channels can be tailored in our scheme. By rescaling the voltage range of the pulses that trigger programming and forget-ting, we can accelerate the operation by several orders of magnitude, from the kHz range to the MHz range. In addition to the order-of-magnitude tuning, we can also fine-tune the dynamic properties of individual memristive channels, by setting different forgetting times for each channel. When tested on benchmark time series forecast-ing tasks, our memristive time series forecasting system demonstrates excellent forecasting accuracy at both kHz and MHz operating frequencies. We compared our memristive time-series prediction system with the two extreme cases available in the lit-erature for the NARMA 2 prediction task. In the first, a large number of memristive channels (90) were used with fixed, hardware-encoded forgetting times,[32] while in the second (our previous work[41]), a minimal number of memristive channels (only two memristors) were used, but the forgetting times were optimized individually dur-ing training. Here, we demonstrated an ideal trade-off between these two extreme cases. On one hand, we pre-set the forgetting times for each channel, thereby simpli-fying the training to a linear regression on the weights of the output layer. On the other hand, thanks to the differently configured forgetting times for each channel, a surprisingly small number (only 6 memristive channels) is sufficient to achieve efficient time series prediction. With this, we have demonstrated that nonvolatile memristors can not only be used as static weights in hardware accelerators for neural networks, but are also ideally suited for implementing compact, traceable, well-controllable, and efficient dynamic reservoir computing layers. Thanks to the channel-specific forgetting times, the easy scalability of the number of channels, and the flexible tuning of the operating frequencies, this provides a versatile method for the efficient analysis and predic-tion of signals with temporal correlations. The MHz fre-quencies achieved, along with the promise of even faster performance resulting from the devices’ ultra-fast oper-ation, pave the way for applications at telecommunica-tions frequencies, where time series analysis, prediction 8and recovery tasks are highly relevant. 

SUPPORTING INFORMATION 

Supporting Information is available from the authors. 

DATA AVAILABILITY 

The data that support the findings of this study are available at the authors upon reasonable request. 

CODE AVAILABILITY 

The core computer code of our simulations is available at the authors upon reasonable request. 

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 

This research was supported by the NKFI K143169, K143282, and 152611 grants. T.N.T. acknowledges the support of the Bolyai J´ anos Research Scholarship of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. J.L., M.C. and N.J.O. acknowledge the financial support of the Werner Siemens Stiftung. Z.B. acknowledges the support of the NKFI FK146339 grant. 

AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS 

The measurements and the data analysis were per-formed by D.M. with contribution of J.V.Jr. in the measurement of the time-voltage dilemma. The Ta 2O5

memristors were developed and fabricated by M.C and N.J.O. in the group of J.L. T.N.T. and Z.B. respectively contributed to the optimization of the devices and the measurement setup. The project was conceived and su-pervised by A.H. The manuscript was written by D.M. and A.H. All authors contributed to the discussion of the results. 

CONFLICT OF INTEREST 

The authors declare no conflict of interest. 

[1] Q. Xia, J. J. Yang, Memristive crossbar arrays for brain-inspired computing, Nature Materials 2019 , 18 309. [2] S. Choi, J. Yang, G. Wang, Emerging memristive ar-tificial synapses and neurons for energy-efficient neuro-morphic computing, Advanced Materials 2020 , 32 , 51 2004659. [3] Y. Ji, L. Wang, Y. Long, J. Wang, H. Zheng, Z. G. Yu, Y.-W. Zhang, K.-W. Ang, Ultralow energy adaptive neu-romorphic computing using reconfigurable zinc phospho-rus trisulfide memristors, Nature Communications 2025 ,

16 , 1 6899. [4] D. Shi, W. Wang, Y. Liang, L. Duan, G. Du, Y. Xie, Ul-tralow energy consumption angstrom-fluidic memristor, 

Nano Letters 2023 , 23 , 24 11662. [5] Z. Xia, X. Sun, Z. Wang, J. Meng, B. Jin, T. Wang, Low-Power memristor for neuromorphic computing: From materials to applications, Nanomicro Lett 2025 , 17 , 1 217. [6] S. H. Jo, W. Lu, Cmos compatible nanoscale nonvolatile resistance switching memory, Nano Letters 2008 , 8 392. [7] F. Cai, J. M. Correll, S. H. Lee, Y. Lim, V. Bothra, Z. Zhang, M. P. Flynn, W. D. Lu, A fully inte-grated reprogrammable memristor-cmos system for effi-cient multiply-accumulate operations, Nature Electronics 

2019 , 2 290. [8] M. Rao, H. Tang, J. Wu, W. Song, M. Zhang, W. Yin, Y. Zhuo, F. Kiani, B. Chen, X. Jiang, H. Liu, H.-Y. Chen, R. Midya, F. Ye, H. Jiang, Z. Wang, M. Wu, M. Hu, H. Wang, Q. Xia, N. Ge, J. Li, J. J. Yang, Thousands of conductance levels in memristors integrated on cmos, 

Nature 2023 , 615 823. [9] R. Yang, K. Terabe, Y. Yao, T. Tsuruoka, T. Hasegawa, J. K. Gimzewski, M. Aono, Synaptic plasticity and mem-ory functions achieved in a wo 3−x-based nanoionics de-vice by using the principle of atomic switch operation, 

Nanotechnology 2013 , 24 , 38 384003. [10] Y. Yang, B. Chen, W. D. Lu, Memristive physically evolving networks enabling the emulation of heterosynap-tic plasticity, Advanced Materials 2015 , 27 , 47 7720. [11] H. Zhao, Z. Liu, J. Tang, B. Gao, Y. Zhang, H. Qian, H. Wu, Memristor-based signal processing for edge com-puting, Tsinghua Science and Technology 2022 , 27 , 3 455. [12] Z. Wang, W. Song, T. Wang, Z. Wang, Y. Xu, M. Rao, F. Cai, W. Yin, M. S.-W. Chen, N. Ge, M. Collins, K. Bai, S. Ganguli, M. R. Page, Q. Wu, L. Katehi, Q. Xia, M. Hu, J. J. Yang, Real-time signal processing enabled by fused networks on a memristor-based system on a chip, 

Science Advances 2025 , 11 , 30 eadv3436. [13] R. Wang, W. Zhang, S. Wang, T. Zeng, X. Ma, H. Wang, Y. Hao, Memristor-based signal processing for com-pressed sensing, Nanomaterials 2023 , 13 , 8. [14] N. Sun, Y. Jin, Compressed sensing algorithm for memristor-based computing architectures, In 2025 4th International Conference on Electronics, Integrated Cir-cuits and Communication Technology (EICCT) . 2025 

500–505. [15] P. M. Sheridan, F. Cai, C. Du, W. Ma, Z. Zhang, W. D. Lu, Sparse coding with memristor networks, Nature Nan-otechnology 2017 , 12 , 8 784. [16] X. Ji, X. Hu, Y. Zhou, Z. Dong, S. Duan, Adaptive sparse coding based on memristive neural network with appli-cations, Cognitive Neurodynamics 2019 , 13 , 5 475. [17] W. Woods, C. Teuscher, Fast and accurate sparse coding of visual stimuli with a simple, ultralow-energy spiking architecture, IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks and 9

Learning Systems 2019 , 30 , 7 2173. [18] F. Alibart, E. Zamanidoost, D. B. Strukov, Pattern clas-sification by memristive crossbar circuits using ex situ and in situ training, Nature Communications 2013 , 4

2072. [19] M. Hu, C. E. Graves, C. Li, Y. Li, N. Ge, E. Montgomery, N. Davila, H. Jiang, R. S. Williams, J. J. Yang, Q. Xia, J. P. Strachan, Memristor-based analog computation and neural network classification with a dot product engine, 

Advanced Materials 2018 , 30 1705914. [20] Z. Wang, S. Joshi, S. Savel’ev, W. Song, R. Midya, Y. Li, M. Rao, P. Yan, S. Asapu, Y. Zhuo, H. Jiang, P. Lin, C. Li, J. H. Yoon, N. K. Upadhyay, J. Zhang, M. Hu, J. P. Strachan, M. Barnell, Q. Wu, H. Wu, R. S. Williams, Q. Xia, J. J. Yang, Fully memristive neural networks for pattern classification with unsupervised learning, Nature Electronics 2018 , 1 137. [21] S. Choi, J. H. Shin, J. Lee, P. Sheridan, W. D. Lu, Ex-perimental demonstration of feature extraction and di-mensionality reduction using memristor networks, Nano Letters 2017 , 17 , 5 3113. [22] T. Shi, L. Gao, Y. Tian, S. Tang, J. Liu, Y. Li, R. Zhou, S. Cui, H. Zhang, Y. Li, Z. Wu, X. Zhang, T. Li, X. Yan, Q. Liu, Memristor-based feature learning for pattern clas-sification, Nature Communications 2025 , 16 , 1 913. [23] F. Cai, S. Kumar, T. V. Vaerenbergh, X. Sheng, R. Liu, C. Li, Z. Liu, M. Foltin, S. Yu, Q. Xia, J. J. Yang, R. Beausoleil, W. Lu, J. P. Strachan, Power-efficient com-binatorial optimization using intrinsic noise in memristor hopfield neural networks, Nature Electronics 2020 , 3

409. [24] J. G. Feh´ erv´ ari, Z. Balogh, T. N. T¨ or¨ ok, A. Halbrit-ter, Noise tailoring, noise annealing, and external pertur-bation injection strategies in memristive hopfield neural networks, APL Machine Learning 2024 , 2, 1 016107. [25] M. Jiang, Y. Xu, Z. Li, C. Li, Current opinions on memristor-accelerated machine learning hardware, Cur-rent Opinion in Solid State and Materials Science 2025 ,

37 101226. [26] S. Hochreiter, J. Schmidhuber, Long short-term memory, 

Neural Computation 1997 , 9 1735. [27] J. L. Elman, Finding structure in time, Cognitive Science 

1990 , 14 , 2 179. [28] H. Jaeger, The” echo state” approach to analysing and training recurrent neural networks-with an erratum note’, Bonn, Germany: German National Research Cen-ter for Information Technology GMD Technical Report 

2001 , 148 .[29] M. Dale, S. O’Keefe, A. Sebald, S. Stepney, M. A. Trefzer, Reservoir computing quality: connectivity and topology, Natural Computing 2021 , 20 , 2 205. [30] C. Wringe, M. Trefzer, S. Stepney, Reservoir computing benchmarks: a tutorial review and critique, International Journal of Parallel, Emergent and Distributed Systems 

2025 , 40 , 4 313. [31] M. Yan, C. Huang, P. Bienstman, P. Tino, W. Lin, J. Sun, Emerging opportunities and challenges for the future of reservoir computing, Nature Communications 

2024 , 15 , 1 2056. [32] C. Du, F. Cai, M. A. Zidan, W. Ma, S. H. Lee, W. D. Lu, Reservoir computing using dynamic memristors for tem-poral information processing, Nature Communications 

2017 , 8, 1 2204. [33] Y. Zhong, J. Tang, X. Li, B. Gao, H. Qian, H. Wu, Dynamic memristor-based reservoir computing for high-efficiency temporal signal processing, Nature Communi-cations 2021 , 12 408. [34] J. Cao, X. Zhang, H. Cheng, J. Qiu, X. Liu, M. Wang, Q. Liu, Emerging dynamic memristors for neuromorphic reservoir computing, Nanoscale 2022 , 14 , 2 289. [35] M. Csontos, Y. Horst, N. J. Olalla, U. Koch, I. Sho-rubalko, A. Halbritter, J. Leuthold, Picosecond time-scale resistive switching monitored in real-time, Advanced Electronic Materials 2023 , 9 2201104. [36] X. Liang, Y. Zhong, X. Li, H. Huang, T. Li, J. Tang, B. Gao, H. Qian, H. Wu, H. Heidari, A physical reser-voir computing model based on volatile memristor for temporal signal processing, In 2022 29th IEEE Interna-tional Conference on Electronics, Circuits and Systems (ICECS) . 2022 1–4. [37] R. Midya, Z. Wang, S. Asapu, X. Zhang, M. Rao, W. Song, Y. Zhuo, N. Upadhyay, Q. Xia, J. J. Yang, Reservoir computing using diffusive memristors, Ad-vanced Intelligent Systems 2019 , 1, 7 1900084. [38] G. Milano, G. Pedretti, K. Montano, S. Ricci, S. Hashemkhani, L. Boarino, D. Ielmini, C. Ricciardi, In materia reservoir computing with a fully memristive architecture based on self-organizing nanowire networks, 

Nature materials 2022 , 21 , 2 195. [39] S. Choi, J. Shin, G. Park, J. S. Eo, J. Jang, J. J. Yang, G. Wang, 3d-integrated multilayered physical reservoir array for learning and forecasting time-series informa-tion, Nature Communications 2024 , 15 , 1 2044. [40] D.-w. Kim, Y. Cho, S. Seo, Y. Kim, S.-O. Park, T. Jang, C. Park, Y. T. Oh, J.-D. Lee, S. Choi, Programmable memtransistor array with temporal dynamics modulation for efficient time-series data processing, Nature Commu-nications 2026 .[41] D. Moln´ ar, T. N. T¨ or¨ ok, J. Volk, R. K¨ ovecs, L. P´ osa, P. Bal´ azs, G. Moln´ ar, N. J. Olalla, Z. Balogh, J. Volk, J. Leuthold, M. Csontos, A. Halbritter, Neural informa-tion processing and time-series prediction with only two dynamical memristors, Advanced Electronic Materials 

2026 , 12 , 7 e00353. [42] U. B¨ ottger, M. von Witzleben, V. Havel, K. Fleck, V. Rana, R. Waser, S. Menzel, Picosecond multilevel re-sistive switching in tantalum oxide thin films, Scientific reports 2020 , 10 16391. [43] S. A. Billings, Nonlinear System Identification: NAR-MAX Methods in the Time, Frequency, and Spatio– Temporal Domains , John Wiley & Sons, 2013 .[44] A. Atiya, A. Parlos, New results on recurrent network training: unifying the algorithms and accelerating con-vergence, IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks 2000 ,

11 , 3 697. [45] A. Ny´ ary, Z. Balogh, B. S´ anta, G. L´ az´ ar, N. Jimenez Olalla, J. Leuthold, M. Csontos, A. Halbrit-ter, Benchmarking stochasticity behind reproducibility: Denoising strategies in ta2o5 memristors, ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2025 , 17 , 17 25654. [46] B. S´ anta, Z. Balogh, L. P´ osa, D. Kriszti´ an, T. N. T¨ or¨ ok, D. Moln´ ar, C. Sink´ o, R. Hauert, M. Csontos, A. Halbrit-ter, Noise tailoring in memristive filaments, ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2021 , 13 7453. [47] Z. Balogh, G. Mezei, L. P´ osa, B. S´ anta, A. Magyarkuti, A. Halbritter, 1 /f noise spectroscopy and noise tailoring of nanoelectronic devices, Nano Futures 2021 , 5 042002. Supporting Information 

## High-speed time-series prediction using compact memristor circuits with adjustable dynamics Supporting Information 

D´ aniel Moln´ ar, 1, 2 J´ anos Volk Jr., 1 T´ ımea N´ ora T¨ or¨ ok, 1, 3 Zolt´ an Balogh, 1, 2 

Nadia Jimenez Olalla, 4 Mikl´ os Csontos, 4 Juerg Leuthold, 4 Andr´ as Halbritter 1, 2, ∗

> 1

Department of Physics, Institute of Physics, Budapest University of Technology and Economics, M˝ uegyetem rkp. 3., H-1111 Budapest, Hungary. 

> 2

HUN-REN-BME Condensed Matter Research Group, M˝ uegyetem rkp. 3., H-1111 Budapest, Hungary. 

> 3

Institute of Technical Physics and Materials Science, HUN-REN Centre for Energy Research, Konkoly-Thege M. ´ ut 29-33, 1121 Budapest, Hungary. 

> 4

Institute of Electromagnetic Fields, ETH Zurich, Gloriastrasse 35, 8092 Zurich, Switzerland.  

> ∗halbritter.andras@ttk.bme.hu

S1 Supporting Information  

> S1. Sample fabrication

The Ta/Ta 2O5/Pt memristors were fabricated on Si/SiO 2 substrates with a 280 nm thick ther-mally grown SiO 2 layer. First, a 10 nm thick Ti adhesion layer and a 40 nm thick Pt bottom electrode were deposited by electron-beam evaporation at a base pressure of 10 −7 mbar and a deposition rate of 0.1 nm/s. Subsequently, a 5 nm thick Ta 2O5 switching layer was deposited by reactive high-power impulse magnetron sputtering (HiPIMS) from a Ta target at a pressure of 6 mTorr using Ar and O 2 flow rates of 45 and 5 sccm, respectively, and an RF power of 250 W. Finally, the Ta top electrode and Pt capping layer were deposited by sputtering at 4 mTorr using an Ar flow of 45 sccm, with RF and DC powers of 250 W and 125 W for Ta and Pt, respectively. Both the 2.5 μm wide bottom and top electrodes were defined by standard optical lithography followed by lift-off.  

> S2. Measurement Methods

Figure S1a,b demonstrates the two schemes we have applied in our measurements. In both cases the memristive channels are driven by an Arbitrary Waveform Generator (AWG). Panel (a) demonstrates an approach, where the Vout ,i voltage on the Rseries series resistor of channel 

i (see Fig. 2 in the main text) is directly measured by a Digital Sampling Oscilloscope (DSO). This approach is appropriate for the low frequency measurements, however, in the MHz range an impedance matched circuit is more appropriate. Using the scheme of Fig. S1a unwanted reflections will occur at the high impedance (High Z) input of the DSO, while a 50 Ω input of the DSO would short-circuit the resistor in series. Therefore, Fig. S1b is a better suited circuit for high frequency measurements, where instead of directly measuring Vout ,i, rather the Ii current of channel i is measured with a transimpedance amplifier. The latter has 50 Ω impedance matched input and output, and the output is connected to the 50 Ω input of the DSO. Time-series prediction experiments at kHz frequencies were performed using the measurement setup shown in Fig. S1(a). The input signals were generated by a National Instruments PXIe-5433 arbitrary waveform generator (AWG) with 80 MHz analog bandwidth, while the voltage drop across the series resistor was recorded using the High-Z (1 MΩ) input of a PicoScope PS6404A oscilloscope with 500 MHz analog bandwidth. Along the readout pulses the transient regions were excluded from the data, and the remaining part ( ≈ 1000 datapoints) was averaged to obtain Vout ,i.The outputs of the various memristive channels were measured separately, and the predicted output S2 Supporting Information was then obtained by combining the measured signals in software. To extend the operating frequency into the MHz regime, the modified setup shown in Fig. S1b was employed. The same AWG and PicoScope PS6404A oscilloscope were used, with the oscillo-scope configured for 50 Ω input termination to ensure proper impedance matching, while a Femto DHPCA amplifier with 200 MHz analog bandwidth provided the high-frequency readout required for the MHz measurements. In this case the output voltage was evaluated as Vout ,i = Rseries · Ii.Apart from these hardware modifications, the experimental protocol remained unchanged. The same programming, readout, and data-processing procedures were therefore used for both fre-quency ranges. For the characterization of the time-voltage dilemma(see the black datapoints in Fig. 1b of the main text) also the measurement setup in Fig. S1b was used. Voltage waveforms were generated using a Zurich Instruments HDAWG arbitrary waveform generator (750 MHz analog bandwidth). For signals below 500 kHz, the output was amplified using a Femto DLPCA-200 amplifier, while signals above 500 kHz were amplified using a Mini Circuts ZHL-72A+ 700 MHz amplifier. The voltage waveforms were monitored at the 50 Ω input of a PicoScope PS6404A oscilloscope. Prior to each measurement, the memristor was initialized to a resistance of Rinitial = 20 kΩ ±

500 Ω using an iterative programming procedure. Starting from the low-resistance state, negative voltage pulses with an initial amplitude of −500 mV were applied. If the measured resistance increased, pulses of the same amplitude were repeated until the target resistance was reached. Otherwise, the pulse amplitude was increased in steps of 50 mV. If the resistance exceeded the target value, the same procedure was repeated using voltage pulses of opposite polarity until the 

> FIG. S1. The measurement setup (a) used for the kHz time series prediction, while the (b) is used for the the MHz operation of time series prediction and the measurement time-voltage dilemma

S3 Supporting Information device was restored to the desired resistance region. After initialization, a programming pulse with amplitude Vset and duration tset was applied, followed by a 100 mV read pulse to determine the resulting resistance. Pulse durations ranging from 10 s to 5 × 10 −5 s were applied covering altogether 12 different pulse widths distributed evenly along the logarithmic time axis. At a certain pulse width, first pulses with lower (non-switching) amplitudes were applied, and the pulse amplitude was gradually increased in 50 mV steps. The response to each pulse was measured, and after each pulse Rinitial was restored, if a significant switching was observed. The switching voltage at a certain pulse width is taken as the smallest voltage amplitude, where the resistance decreases below the half of the initial resistance. The obtained switching time/voltage pairs are displayed on Fig 1b of the main text.  

> S3. Time series prediction at MHz frequencies

In the main text (Fig. 4) the high (MHz) frequency time series prediction is only demonstrated for Approach I. Here, Fig. S2 demonstrates the results of the same measurements evaluated for Approach I, II and III as well, following the visualization scheme of the low frequency measurements (Fig. 3 in the main texts). The detailed description of these approaches is available in the main text and it is also summarized in the caption of Fig. S2. S4 Supporting Information 

FIG. S2. The results of the time series prediction tasks using the NARX (a1,a2,a3), the NARMA2 (b1,b2,b3) and the DYN3 (c1,c2,c3) dynamical systems in the MHz operating range. In Approach I (a1,b1,c1) 6 memristive channels are applied, each using a different (but fixed) negative offset voltage for forgetting (-1.2 V, -1.3 V, -1.4 V, -1.5 V -1.6 V, -1.7 V). We assign different memristors, selected at random, to the six possible offset voltage levels listed above. The colored curves show the predicted output values for 10 different random selections of the 6 memristors, compared with the ground truth ( y(k), black lines). The average and minimum NMSE values are shown above the curves. In this approach solely the wi weights of the readout linear combination are optimized, and the forgetting times are fixed for the different channels. In Approach 2 (a2,b2,c2) only two, randomly selected memristive channels are used, but beside the wi weights the offset voltages (forgetting times) of the two channels are also optimized to achieve the best prediction accuracy. The prediction results for the 10 different random memristor selections are compared to the ground truth similarly to Approach I. In Approach III (a3,b3,c3) we calculate the NMSE values as a function of the number of memristive channels (N) such that both the N memristors and the corresponding offset values are randomly selected. For each N the NMSE is calculated for 100 random selections (colored points for a given N). The average NMSE values for Approach III are shown by the solid lines. As a comparison the average NMSE values are also shown for Approach I (dashed horizontal lines) and Approach II (dotted horizontal lines). 

S5