Title: When Do Corrective Features Help? An Agent for Corrective Feature Discovery on Black-Box Forecasters

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2608.05207v1

Published Time: Fri, 07 Aug 2026 00:01:50 GMT

Number of Pages: 23

Markdown Content:
# When Do Corrective Features Help? An Agent for Corrective Feature Discovery on Black-Box Forecasters 

Fangxin Wang 1, Ziyi Zhang 2, Diyi Zhuang 3, Langzhou He 1, Shiyu Wang, Baichuan Mo 4, Philip S. Yu 1

> 1

University of Illinois Chicago, 2Texas A&M University, 

> 3

Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 4Tsinghua University 

Abstract 

Frozen pretrained forecasters often fail in struc-tured, recurring ways that are costly to re-pair through fine-tuning. We study correc-tive feature discovery : mining interpretable features of the frozen forecaster’s residual to drive a lightweight post-hoc corrector. Prior automated feature engineering models the data-generating process; corrective features instead model the model-failure process. We present CRAFTER (Corrective Residual Agent with Feature-based Temporal Exploration and Rea-soning), which keeps the backbone frozen and mines its residual with two generators of dif-ferent character: a compositional search over the raw input channels, and a large language model (LLM) that proposes named feature com-binations, binary flags, and short executable code. A single validation-grounded gate ac-cepts or rejects every candidate blind to its ori-gin, and a validation-selected corrector applies the survivors or leaves the forecast unchanged. The same source-blindness lets prior feature-engineering systems run through the identical pipeline, so C RAFTER doubles as an instrument that attributes forecast changes to the feature source alone. Across six public datasets and six frozen backbones, C RAFTER surpasses every dedicated feature-engineering system at every feature budget, roughly doubling the corrector-only lift and cutting the weakest backbones’ error by up to 27% . The gains are robust to the LLM backend and persist on top of fine-tuned backbones. 

1 Introduction 

Large-scale forecasting is now served by pretrained backbones deployed frozen (Liu et al., 2024; Ansari et al., 2024; Liu et al., 2025a). An e-commerce platform or grocery chain predicts sales for hun-dreds of thousands of store–product series from a single model, because fine-tuning one per item or regime is infeasible. The frozen model still fails in structured, recurring ways: it misses promotions, lags regime shifts, and underprices event spikes. These errors are business-critical and must be inter-pretable to act on, so the question is not how to train a better forecaster but how to correct a deployed one cheaply, without modifying it. A natural way to correct a fixed forecaster is to add external, interpretable features around it. This connects the problem to automated feature engineering, but with a different target: once the backbone is frozen, the object of discovery changes from the target process itself to the residual of a particular deployed model. The relevant question is not which regularities help predict the future, but which remain unmodeled by this backbone. We therefore study corrective feature discovery :automatically finding interpretable features of the residual, the signal of where and how a particular frozen forecaster fails. The residual is not leftover noise a priori—it carries structure induced by the backbone’s blind spots, concentrated around pro-motions, rare events, and local regimes—so a cor-rective feature is model-dependent and doubles as a diagnosis: each accepted feature names a mecha-nism the deployed model misses. Two properties make the discovery hard. First, the most valuable corrective features are named 

from domain semantics rather than enumerated from the raw schema; where they matter, a sta-tistical feature bank and a syntactic search improve the forecast only modestly, while named features close most of the remaining gap (§5.1). Second, a feature’s value is regime-dependent : it concentrates where the backbone errs and vanishes where the backbone is already accurate, so the same source helps on one backbone–dataset cell and is inert or harmful on another. Whether a feature source or corrector configuration helps therefore depends on the regime, and this dependence has not been characterized systematically. CRAFTER addresses the method and the charac-terization together. It keeps the backbone frozen 1arXiv:2608.05207v1 [cs.LG] 5 Aug 2026 and mines the residual with two generators of differ-ent character: a compositional search over the raw channels, and an LLM that proposes named com-binations, binary flags, and short executable code. A single validation-grounded gate admits candi-dates blind to their origin, and a validation-selected corrector applies the survivors or leaves the fore-cast unchanged when none help. This source-blind design merges two heterogeneous generators into one method, and also turns the pipeline into an instrument for fairly evaluating external feature-engineering system. We evaluate C RAFTER on six public datasets and six frozen backbone families using a rolling-origin, multi-seed protocol. All methods are run in the same evaluation harness and, where appli-cable, with the same LLM backend. Across this controlled comparison, C RAFTER consistently out-performs three dedicated feature-engineering sys-tems. This advantage is robust to feature budget, remains under a second LLM backend, and also holds when the corrected backbone is fine-tuned rather than used zero-shot. On the two datasets where we test temporal reuse, the discovered fea-tures transfer across backtest windows. Finally, we identify the limits of residual correction: in saturated cells, no feature source yields a reliable improvement. 

Contributions. (C1) A source-blind frame-work for corrective feature discovery. We for-mulate feature discovery for a frozen forecaster as residual correction, and instantiate it with a sin-gle validation-grounded gate that admits heteroge-neous sources blind to their origin. The framework is both a deployable correction layer and an evalua-tion instrument: any external feature-engineering system runs through the identical gate, corrector, and budget, so a difference in the forecast is at-tributable to the feature source alone. (C2) A char-acterization of when corrective features help. 

Across six datasets and six backbone families we map where residual correction is beneficial, in-ert, or harmful. Correction pays in proportion to the residual’s exploitable structure: large on weak backbones with informative forecast covariates, where LLM-named features are the differentiator, and neutral once a strong backbone saturates the series. Budget amplifies that margin rather than creating it. 

2 Related Work 

Frozen foundation forecasters. Pretrained time-series models are often deployed zero-shot, with a single backbone served frozen across many se-ries (Ansari et al., 2024; Liu et al., 2024, 2025a). This avoids per-series fine-tuning, but the frozen model leaves a backbone-specific residual it cannot remove on its own. We take that residual as the object to model and leave the backbone untouched, consistent with broader lightweight post-training approaches that add capabilities to frozen foun-dation models without updating their pretrained weights (Houlsby et al., 2019; Hu et al., 2021; He et al., 2025). 

Automated and LLM-based feature engineering. 

A long line of work builds features to improve a trainable predictor. Statistical banks extract many candidate features and select among them (Christ et al., 2018; Cerqueira et al., 2020; Costa, 2021), and search-based engines compose operators over the raw schema with reinforcement learning (Khu-rana et al., 2018), Monte-Carlo tree search (Huang et al., 2022), or expert-level generation (Zhang et al., 2022). A recent line prompts an LLM to write feature code from dataset context (Hollmann et al., 2023; Nam et al., 2024; Abhyankar et al., 2025; Murray et al., 2025), and AutoCT pairs an LLM with tree search for tabular features (Liu et al., 2025b). Two things separate this work from ours. Its objective is predictive : the features train a down-stream model rather than explain a fixed one. And its strongest LLM methods target tabular data. We run three of these systems as feature generators in-side our own pipeline (§4), which puts every source on one footing. 

Correcting a frozen forecaster. Modeling the error of a fixed forecaster with a second learner is a classic idea (Zhang, 2003). Recent methods correct a deployed forecaster without retraining it. Post-Training Corrections picks a sequence of cor-rections from a fixed pool (Cherkaoui et al., 2025). The δ-Adapter learns a sparse input mask and a bounded residual head, and uses no LLM (Liang et al., 2026). Other methods adapt a frozen fore-caster online or through a memory module (Lyu et al., 2026; Dai et al., 2026a), and AutoGluon-TimeSeries regresses on raw covariates inside its pipeline (Shchur et al., 2023). These methods cor-rect the forecast, but they act on inputs that are already given. None discovers new interpretable 2features of the residual. 

Discovering residual features to correct. Clos-est to our setting is NSR-Boost, which keeps a model frozen and uses an LLM to write symbolic residual experts for an aggregator to combine (Dai et al., 2026b). It is tabular, it uses the LLM as its only generator, and it runs no search. Work on fore-casting explanation and interpretable correction an-alyzes or adjusts model behavior, but does not dis-cover corrective features (Wang et al., 2023; Lopez and Sobieczky, 2024). C RAFTER differs in three ways. It mines the residual of a frozen forecaster .It draws candidates from two different generators, a compositional search and an LLM, and admits them through one validation gate that is blind to their source. Because the gate is source-blind, the same pipeline also measures which source and con-figuration help in which regime, which the work above does not study. 

3 Method 

We present C RAFTER (Corrective Residual Agent with Feature-based Temporal Exploration and 

Reasoning), an agent for corrective feature dis-covery . It leaves the forecasting backbone frozen and mines interpretable features of its residual, the signal of where and how the backbone fails, to drive a lightweight post-hoc corrector. This section de-scribes the framework and the single source-blind gate at its core (§3.1), its two feature generators, Ex-ploration (a compositional search) and Reasoning 

(a language model), with their optional coupling (§3.2), the gate (§3.3), and the validation-selected corrector (§3.4). 

3.1 Overview 

Illustrated in Fig. 1, C RAFTER corrects a frozen forecaster without modifying it. Given the back-bone forecast ˆy over a horizon, it mines in-terpretable features of the residual and fits a lightweight gradient-boosted-tree corrector on them, which then adjusts the forecast or leaves it unchanged. Quality is measured by the weighted mean absolute percentage error (wMAPE) of the horizon total (the corrector target and hyperparam-eters are in App. A and D). Covariates enter only as corrector features, never as backbone inputs; §5.4 shows this routing is what makes the gain possible. Every candidate feature is a structured specifi-cation : a typed record drawn from a fixed gram-mar (App. C) that applies transforms and an oper-ator to a few input channels and compiles to one numeric column. Specifications are searchable, de-duplicable across rounds, and interpretable by name, so a run can be audited feature by feature. CRAFTER mines the residual with two generators of different character—an atomic search over the raw channels and an LLM that proposes named fea-tures (§3.2)—and routes both into a single source-blind acceptance gate (§3.3) that keeps a candidate only when it explains validation error the corrector cannot already account for, whichever generator produced it. CRAFTER runs for R rounds (Alg. S1, App. B). Each round fits the corrector, diagnoses where it still errs on a held-out validation block, mines new candidates from both generators, and keeps those that pass the gate. A validation-selected corrector then applies the survivors or leaves the backbone unchanged when none help (§3.4). 

3.2 Feature generators 

CRAFTER mines the residual with two generators of different character. A compositional search com-poses the raw channels into new features, and an LLM names mechanisms the raw schema does not contain. Both feed candidates into the single gate of §3.3, which decides what survives. 

Compositional search. The first generator builds 

compositional features in the tradition of operator-based automated feature engineering (Cerqueira et al., 2020; Costa, 2021; Zhang et al., 2022), named atomic in this paper. A feature applies a transform to one channel, or an operator to two transformed channels, drawn from a fixed vocab-ulary of T =15 transforms and B=8 operators (App. C). The depth-one and depth-two expres-sions number far too many to score exhaustively, about 6×10 5 for C≈25 channels, so C RAFTER 

searches. It uses a Monte-Carlo tree search (Koc-sis and Szepesvári, 2006) whose nodes are UCB1 bandits (Auer et al., 2002). Channels are grouped into mechanism families such as volatility or 

trend ; a family pools its channels, so one reward updates the whole mechanism and the search finds productive families from few samples before refin-ing to a single channel. A root-to-leaf path picks a family and arity, then the channels, then the oper-ator, each node conditioned on the choices above it (App. C). An arm is credited by two signals: a cheap proxy at scoring time, the rank correlation ρ

between the candidate and the still-unexplained val-31 Frozen backbone                                              

> Parameters fixed, outputs forecast ŷ
> 2Residual y−ŷ
> The signal of where & how the backbone fails
> Covariates à
> channels
> Feature building blocks: -Raw series -Exogenous covariates
> Covariates enter search channel, not backbone.
> 3Residual mining — two generation sources
> Exploration Compositional search
> Monte-Carlo Tree Search
> A root → leaf path picks four layers in tree, where each node denotes a UCB1 bandit.
> E.G. COMPOSITIONAL FEATURE · ~6×10⁵ SPECS
> promo_dow_interaction = safe_div(log(Promo), softplus(dow))
> 1TO EXPLORATION
> New base column joins the channel pool — searchable next round.
> COUPLING
> CRAFTER †
> 2TO REASONING
> Accepted · coverage · rejects
> condition the next LLM proposal.
> Reasoning LLM proposer Planner ·Specifier ·Base Proposer ·Reflection
> LLM-combo
> e.g., channel combinations
> renewable_penetration = safe_div(cov_PV+Wind Forecast, cov_Load Forecast)
> LLM-flag
> e.g., binary flags
> 1[ ctx_std > q ₇₅ ∧
> Promo>0 ∧Open ≥1 ]
> LLM-code
> e.g., short executable
> trend_r_squared
> Source-blind acceptance gate
> A CANDIDATE IS ACCEPTED ONLY IF
> EXPLAINS NEW ERROR
> !with the unexplained validation residual exceeds a threshold.
> NOT REDUNDANT
> !with any already-accepted feature do not exceed a threshold.
> WITHIN BUDGET
> Per-family and per-round budgets. Same test for any candidate feat and generator, making CRAFTER auniversal framework.
> 5Validation-selected corrector
> None (unchanged) + Additive GBDT
> ×Multiplicative GBDT
> Corrected forecast ŷ′
> R rounds — refit corrector · diagnose validation residual · re-mine features
> 45
> FAMILY × ARITY 1ST CHANNEL 2ND CHANNEL TRANSFORMS + OP
> event · binary cov_Promo dow safe_div root
> 56
> CRAFTER: +19.78% CRAFTER†: +18.65%
> Best Ext: +12.69% Raw (baseline)

Figure 1: The C RAFTER framework. The forecaster stays frozen. Two generators mine its residual for structured feature specifications: a compositional Monte-Carlo tree search and an LLM proposer, optionally coupled (C RAFTER 

†). A source-blind gate admits a candidate only when it explains validation error the corrector cannot. A validation-selected corrector based on correlation ρ and budget then applies the survivors, or leaves the forecast unchanged. The loop runs R rounds. 

idation residual, and the realized gain in validation wMAPE after the corrector is refit. The bandit se-lects arms by UCB1 and updates each arm’s value by the incremental sample mean of these rewards; the selection, update, and reward rules are Eq. (S3)– (S5) in App. D. The realized gain ties the search to the deployed model: a feature is worth what keeping it actually buys. 

LLM-proposed features. The search only re-combines existing channels; the LLM invents fea-tures that name mechanisms the schema lacks. Or-ganized into roles and queried a few times per round, it reasons over the run’s own evidence, not generic knowledge alone: which features the gate accepted, which it rejected, and which mechanism families are still uncovered. A P LANNER reads this state and proposes a few exploration directions .A S PECIFIER turns each direction into candidate specs built from existing channels, surfacing se-mantic compositions a syntactic search would not prioritize: on the EPF electricity-price series it com-poses a renewable_penetration , renewable gen-eration over total load, which captures the price suppression a covariate-blind backbone misses. A BASE PROPOSER goes further and invents new named base columns for mechanisms the schema lacks, which join the channel pool and become searchable next round. A R EFLECTION call revises the next round’s directions when few candidates survive the gate. The LLM proposes three kinds of features: 1) LLM-combo : combinations of ex-isting channels, 2) LLM-flag : binary flags, and 3) 

LLM-code : short executable code (accepted exam-ples of every kind in App. K). LLM only proposes :which candidates survive is decided by the gate of §3.3, not by the model. All role prompts are in App. H. 

Coupling the two generators. The two can also run as a coupled loop. A new base column in-vented by the LLM, once it passes the gate, joins the channel pool, so the search can compose it with other channels in later rounds. Conversely, each round’s merged accepted set, family coverage, and rejected candidates condition the next LLM pro-posal, steering it toward thin families and away from past rejects. Decided by whether allowing coupling, we have both C RAFTER and C RAFTER †

(coupled) evaluated in the experiments. 

3.3 The source-blind acceptance gate 

Both generators feed one gate, and that gate is what makes C RAFTER a single method rather than two pipelines. A candidate is accepted only if it explains validation error the corrector cannot al-ready account for: the Spearman correlation be-tween the candidate and the unexplained validation residual must exceed a threshold τ , the candidate must not be collinear with an already-accepted fea-ture, and per-family and per-round budgets must hold. The same test applies to every candidate, compositional or semantic. Deciding acceptance on one validation-grounded scale makes the two 4generators commensurable without either reading the other’s internal scores: the merged pool self-selects against the residual, not against any genera-tor’s private confidence. The gate is agnostic to a feature’s origin, with a consequence beyond merging the two genera-tors. Any external feature-engineering system runs through the identical pipeline by swapping only the generator, with the gate, corrector, and selection un-changed. C RAFTER then doubles as an instrument :a difference in the final forecast is attributable to the feature source, because nothing else moves (§5.1). The same source-blindness that unifies the two gen-erators keeps that comparison fair. 

3.4 Validation-selected corrector 

The features that pass the gate feed a corrector. CRAFTER fits a small corrector set —an identity (N ONE ) map plus an additive and a multiplica-tive gradient-boosted corrector—and keeps the one with the best validation wMAPE. Trees are cho-sen because the residual is nonlinear and regime-dependent and because per-feature importances keep the correction auditable (App. D). The N ONE 

option floors the risk on validation (a round never ships a corrector worse there than leaving the back-bone alone), making correction an asymmetric bet. This is a validation-time safeguard, not a test guarantee: under rolling-origin shift a low-headroom cell can still regress out-of-sample (e.g., 

> BIZITOBS

/Chronos, §5.1). 

4 Experimental Setup 

Datasets. We use six public forecasting datasets spanning the regimes where covariate information varies in kind and strength (listed in the order used throughout): EPF -DE (day-ahead electricity prices; a single long series with forecast-type renewable covariates) (Lago et al., 2021), two promotion-driven retail panels ( ROSSMANN , ROHLIK ) (Kag-gle, 2015, 2024), an hourly business-operations panel ( BIZITOBS -L2C) (Palaskar et al., 2024), a store-sales panel ( FAVORITA ) (Kaggle, 2017), and the M5 weekly competition data ( M5) (Makridakis et al., 2022). Together they cover single- vs. many-series, covariate-rich vs. covariate-poor, and weak-vs. saturated-backbone settings. 

Frozen backbones. Our grid corrects six pre-trained backbones used zero-shot, listed in order of release: Timer (Liu et al., 2024), Chronos (Ansari et al., 2024), Moirai (Woo et al., 2024), and Toto (Cohen et al., 2024), followed by Chronos-2 (Ansari et al., 2025) and Moirai-2.0 (Liu et al., 2025a), spanning the first foundation-model wave to current leaders. Chronos and Timer are pri-marily univariate or channel-independent forecast-ers; Moirai and Toto can handle multivariate time-series inputs; and Chronos-2 explicitly exposes a covariate-aware forecasting interface. In every grid we nonetheless run all backbones covariate-blind, so the backbone forecast never sees the covariates and every method corrects the same residual—any covariate value is then attributable to the correc-tor, not the backbone (routing them into the back-bone instead is at best neutral; §5.4). The grid is 

6 × 6 = 36 cells. 

Protocol. We use a rolling-origin backtest: on cached forecasts we re-cut three expanding train:val:test splits ( 6:1:1 , 7:1:1 , 8:1:1 ) with no test leakage, validate on three blocked CV win-dows, run R=3 rounds, and report last-round test wMAPE averaged over the three splits and three seeds (nine runs per cell). We assess significance with a one-sided Wilcoxon signed-rank test over the paired cells and decompose run-to-run variance into seed and split components (App. D); split vari-ance dominates. The public datasets may appear in either LLM’s pretraining corpus, but the leak-age surface is small: the LLM emits only feature 

specifications and code reading past history and the backbone forecast, never test-period values. Be-cause seeds do not change the cached forecasts, the grid is GPU-free and cheap; compute and timing details are in App. D. 

Baselines and backend. Every feature-engineering method—both CRAFTER variants and the external systems—uses the same GPT-5.2 backend and an identical harness (same cached residual, same corrector set, same validation top-K selection), so only the feature generator 

differs and the comparison is fair by construction. We report two C RAFTER variants, the two right-most (highlighted) columns of App. Table S12: CRAFTER , the full system, and C RAFTER †, which additionally enables the two source-coupling channels of §3.2. The baselines are: the frozen backbone (R AW ); a backbone fine-tune (FT; a uniform head-only fine-tune of every backbone, with a stronger full-parameter Moirai variant in App. F); a covariate-only corrector (C OV )and the no-LLM corrector (C RAFTER -noLLM), which ablate the LLM and the search; and three 5epf rossmann rohlik bizitobs favorita m5 020 40 lift over Raw (%)  (a) correcting the zero-shot backbone Timer Chronos Moirai Toto Chronos-2 Moirai-2 010 20 30 (b) by backbone (release order) epf rossmann rohlik bizitobs favorita m5 020 40 lift over FT (%)  (c) correcting the fine-tuned backbone Timer Chronos Moirai Toto Chronos-2 Moirai-2 010 20 (d) by backbone 

> FT Cov CRAFTER CRAFTER

(a) Correction before and after fine-tuning. 5 10 20 50 All   

> Feature budget K
> 5.0 7.5 10.0 12.5 15.0 17.5 20.0
> Mean lift over Raw (%)  CRAFTER CRAFTER
> Best external CRAFTER w/o LLM

(b) Same-budget fairness. 

Figure 2: Correction holds across training and feature budgets. Mean lift in test wMAPE (%, higher is better) over the 6 datasets. Colours are shared across panels; the two C RAFTER variants share a hue. (a) Correcting the zero-shot backbone (lift over R AW ) and the fine-tuned one (lift over FT). C RAFTER helps in both, with the largest gains on weak backbones. (b) Lift over R AW against budget K; “All” is uncapped. Both C RAFTER variants beat the best external at every K; the no-LLM corrector stays below. Per-cell results in App. Table S12. 

external feature-engineering systems adapted to our setting—TSF RESH (a statistical feature bank) (Christ et al., 2018), CAAFE (LLM-written feature code) (Hollmann et al., 2023), and LLM-FE (LLM-guided evolutionary search) (Abhyankar et al., 2025). App. E states what each adaptation keeps and changes. 

5 Results 

Corrective feature discovery improves a frozen forecaster without retraining it, and the size of that improvement is governed by residual head-room rather than by backbone identity, feature bud-get, or LLM backend. We evaluate on six datasets and six pretrained backbones under one rolling-origin, multi-seed protocol in which every feature-engineering method passes the same validation gate and downstream corrector, so measured differences trace to the discovered features rather than to the corrector (App. D; full per-cell grid in Table S12). This section establishes five points: C RAFTER is state of the art against prior feature engineering and helps weak backbones most (§5.1); the wrap-per generalizes across backbone families (§5.3) and survives non-standard input paths (§5.4); the de-cisive gain comes from the LLM (§5.2); and the learned features transfer across time (§5.5). 

5.1 Corrective discovery improves frozen and fine-tuned backbones 

Figure 2a summarizes the main comparison across six datasets and six backbone families; the full per-cell grid with external baselines is in App. Ta-ble S12. Under the shared harness of §4, both C RAFTER variants outperform each of the three dedicated feature-engineering systems, with per-baseline paired Wilcoxon tests significant at 

p< 0.01 . The result holds both when aggregating by dataset and when aggregating by backbone (Figure 2a and Table 1), showing that corrective discovery is not a single-dataset artifact. 

The gain is not a feature-budget artifact. 

The same-budget sweep rules the explanation that C RAFTER wins simply because it is allowed to propose more candidates. In Fig. 2b (per-budget win rates and mean differences in App. Ta-ble S11), C RAFTER beats the best external feature-engineering system at every feature budget K.Even at K=5 , C RAFTER exceeds the best external system at its own uncapped budget, and the margin saturates by moderate budgets rather than appear-ing only in the “All” setting. The external systems’ curve is comparatively flat, indicating that their additional candidates do not translate into compara-ble residual-correction gains under the shared gate and corrector. Thus the main result reflects feature quality, not merely feature count. 

Fine-tuning is not a substitute for residual cor-rection. We also compare against a uniform head-only fine-tune, FT, applied identically across back-bones. Fine-tuning improves the frozen forecasts, but it does not remove the structured residuals that CRAFTER exploits. Correcting the zero-shot back-bone beats fine-tuning alone on most cells, and applying C RAFTER on top of the fine-tuned back-bone still yields additional lift over FT (Fig. 2a, top 6Table 1: Cross-LLM robustness. Per-backbone sum-mary under both LLM backends. Both variants im-prove every backbone, most on the weak ones, so the backbone-strength picture is LLM-agnostic; dataset-level increments still depend on the backend (§5.2). R AW is the backbone’s mean zero-shot wMAPE ×100 over the 

6 datasets. Lift% is the mean reduction vs. R AW ; wins 

counts datasets (of 6) where the variant matches or beats the best external.                                                                              

> GPT-5.2 DeepSeek-3.4-pro CRAFTER CRAFTER †CRAFTER CRAFTER †
> Backbone RAW Lift% wins Lift% wins Lift% wins Lift% wins Timer 42 .7+25 .75/6 +25 .85/6 +23 .63/6 +29 .74/6 Chronos 31 .7+8 .54/6 +11 .45/6 +9 .64/6 +9 .53/6 Moirai 43 .9+27 .25/6 +26 .85/6 +11 .52/6 +27 .95/6 Toto 35 .4+14 .84/6 +16 .64/6 +11 .04/6 +15 .06/6 Chronos-2 31 .3+6 .44/6 +7 .44/6 +5 .83/6 +11 .95/6 Moirai-2 34 .0+12 .53/6 +12 .83/6 +12 .34/6 +16 .75/6 0.0 2.5 5.0 7.5 10.0 12.5
> features per cell
> atomic LLM-flag LLM-combo LLM-code
> 61% 41% 68% 9%
> (a) feature sources
> proposed selected
> 25 50 75 100
> self (target's own)
> 20 40 60 80 100 120
> transferred
> (b) features transfer across splits
> epf bizitobs

Figure 3: Feature provenance and transfer. (a) Fea-tures proposed vs. selected by source, with survival rate. LLM kinds supply about three-quarters of the selected set, and LLM-code is almost always pruned. (b) Fea-tures learned on one split and replayed on a later one track the target split’s own features along the diago-nal. The off-diagonal points are the Moirai shift corner, mostly single-series EPF (§5.5; App. L). 

vs. bottom; the full per-cell zero-shot-versus-fine-tuned grid is App. Table S1). The same conclusion holds for the stronger full-parameter in-domain fine-tune of the covariate-capable Moirai models, reported in App. Table S2. These results place CRAFTER as a deployment-time correction layer rather than a replacement for backbone adaptation: it improves a frozen model, and it remains useful af-ter fine-tuning when exploitable residual structure remains. 

5.2 Search matters through coupling, not only standalone lift 

We next discuss where the gain in §5.1 comes from. The source-blind gate in the pipeline serve as an attribution device: external feature-engineering sys-tems, compositional search, and LLM-generated candidates are all filtered by the same validation rule and passed to the same corrector. 

Search defines the enumerable feature space. 

The compositional search adds little standalone lift on these public benchmarks (the noLLM column of Table S12; a component-level with/without-LLM comparison is App. Table S5), but this null result is informative rather than incidental. It shows what can be recovered by syntactic enumeration over the observed schema. When this search and the external feature banks fail to close the residual gap, but named LLM features do, the missing signal is not merely another lag, rolling aggregate, or low-order interaction. It is a semantic feature that must be named in a form aligned with the backbone’s residual. The search arm therefore acts as a control for the LLM comparison: it measures the enumer-able floor, so the remaining gain is identified as a semantic feature gap rather than assumed to be one. The clearest case is EPF . External banks and syn-tactic search add little beyond the covariate-only corrector, while C RAFTER removes much more of the frozen error using named forecast-covariate fea-tures such as renewable_penetration (the EPF 

rows of Table S12; representative accepted features in App. K). This is the regime corrective discovery is designed for: the relevant information is present in the covariates, but it does not become useful until it is expressed as a feature that matches the backbone’s failure mode. Similar, though smaller, effects appear on multi-series retail panels, where domain-named interactions generalize across re-lated store–product series. 

Coupling turns search from a control into a mechanism. The coupled variant, C RAFTER †,enables the two cross-feeding generators in §3.2: search results summarize which enumerable can-didates survived the gate, and that feedback is ex-posed to the LLM in later proposal rounds. Search alone adds little net lift, yet feeding its accepted and rejected candidates back to the LLM makes CRAFTER † stronger on balance: it improves on CRAFTER on more cells, gives per-backbone lift at least as large on all but one backbone, and has its clearest gains on EPF (per-backbone lift in Ta-ble 1; per-cell in Table S12). Since the search con-tributes little alone, that gain is the cross-feeding steering the LLM toward features it would not oth-erwise propose. Its cost is variance, especially on volatile single-series cells such as EPF , where a small change in the feature set can move a cell in ei-ther direction (seed versus split variance in App. D). 7We therefore report C RAFTER and C RAFTER † as two endpoints of an explore–exploit trade-off. 

Feature-level evidence supports the same mechanism. The provenance analysis in Fig. 3a shows that most selected features come from LLM-generated semantic sources, while atomic search features survive at a comparable rate but are lim-ited by the smaller enumerable pool (per-source and per-dataset counts in App. J). This matches the performance attribution: the LLM supplies most of the selected feature mass, while search marks the reliable enumerable candidates and provides feedback for coupling. Code-generated features are rarely selected, probably constrained by lim-ited program synthesis. Instead, C RAFTER works by combining three roles: a corrector that tests whether a feature actually reduces residual error, a search process that establishes and feeds back the enumerable space, and an LLM that names seman-tic features outside that space. 

5.3 When do corrective features help? 

The central condition is residual headroom, and App. Fig. S1 is its most direct support: plotting ev-ery backbone–dataset cell’s corrected gain against the backbone’s own R AW error, C RAFTER ’s lift concentrates where the raw error is large and col-lapses to zero where the backbone has already sat-urated the series. Corrective features help when the frozen backbone leaves structured errors that external signals can explain; they are neutral or harmful otherwise. This condition is stronger than backbone identity, release order, or feature budget. 

Headroom, not backbone identity, determines the gain. The clearest evidence comes from com-paring the same dataset across backbone families. On BIZITOBS , correction gives large lift when the raw backbone is weak, as with Timer and Moirai, but becomes neutral or negative when the raw fore-cast already saturates the series, as with Chronos and Moirai-2.0. The gain is governed by how much residual structure the backbone leaves behind, not by which foundation model produced the forecast. This also explains why newer or stronger back-bones can still benefit on some datasets, such as  

> ROSSMANN

and EPF , while older or weaker back-bones do not automatically improve everywhere. 

The useful feature source depends on the kind of residual structure. When the remaining error is tied to semantic forecast covariates, named fea-tures matter most. This is the case on EPF , where external feature banks and syntactic search add lit-tle beyond the covariate-only corrector, but LLM-named features close much more of the frozen error (the EPF rows of Table S12, whose selected set is LLM-dominated in App. Table S7). When the avail-able covariates are already directly informative, as on the retail panels, the covariate-only corrector already captures a large share of the gain and ad-ditional searched features are often redundant (the  

> ROSSMANN

and FAVORITA rows of Table S12). When the residual contains no stable structure, no feature source reliably helps and every column col-lapses onto R AW (the saturated M5 rows, and the flat right-hand region of App. Fig. S1). The ques-tion is therefore not whether one source is globally best, but which source matches the residual left by a particular backbone on a particular dataset. 

Budget amplifies headroom but does not create it. The same-budget sweep gives the feature-budget axis of the characterization (Fig. 2b; App. Table S11). Increasing K widens C RAFTER ’s margin in cells where residual headroom exists, and the gains saturate by moderate budgets. But a larger budget does not turn saturated cells into wins: if the backbone has already absorbed the available structure, more candidate features mostly add variance and selection risk. Budget is therefore an amplifier, not a switch. It helps exploit residual structure when that structure is present, but cannot manufacture structure where the residual is already close to noise. The practical guidance is therefore simple: deploy corrective feature discovery when validation residuals remain structured, especially in weak-backbone or semantic-covariate regimes; treat feature budget as a way to scale gains in those regimes; and avoid forcing correction in saturated cells where no feature source passes the validation gate reliably. 

5.4 Robustness to backend and input path 

The preceding sections use a fixed LLM backend and route all auxiliary information through the cor-rector. We check that the method and the headroom characterization survive two deployment choices: which LLM proposes features, and where covari-ates or multivariate inputs are injected. 

Changing the LLM backend preserves the characterization. Repeating the full grid with DeepSeek-3.4-pro yields the same qualitative pat-tern as the main backend: both C RAFTER vari-ants improve every backbone on average, and the gains remain largest where the raw backbone leaves more residual headroom (Table 1; per-cell results in 8App. Table S13). Thus the conclusion of §5.3 is not an artifact of one LLM. The backend does affect in-dividual cells, especially volatile single-series cases such as EPF , so we do not claim backend-invariant feature sets or identical per-dataset increments. The robust claim is weaker and more useful: changing the LLM changes which named features are found, but it does not change the deployment rule that cor-rection helps when exploitable residual structure remains. 

Covariate-capable backbones do not replace the corrector. A second deployment choice is whether to feed covariates directly to a backbone that accepts them, or to keep the backbone forecast-only and route covariates to the residual corrector. The direct route does not dominate. Toto ingests covariates harmlessly, with little change in R AW ,while Moirai-2.0 can degrade substantially when given the same inputs directly (App. Table S3). In contrast, the correction layer is stable across this choice: on the retail panels, C RAFTER reaches simi-lar corrected accuracy whether or not the covariates were first exposed to the backbone, and it can re-cover even when covariate ingestion degrades the raw forecast. This supports the design choice in §3.1: keep the backbone fixed and route auxiliary signals to a learnable residual corrector. 

5.5 Learned features transfer across time 

A corrective feature is useful only if it captures persistent structure rather than a single-window artifact. We test this by replaying the features ac-cepted on one split onto a later split, with the LLM and search turned off, so only the feature set’s ori-gin changes; the target split’s own features serve as an upper bound, and a covariate-only correc-tor as a lower bound. Across two datasets, five backbones, and every ordered split pair, transferred features match the target’s own features at the me-dian and stay within a few percent on most cells (Fig. 3b; App. Table S9). Performance decays only mildly with split distance, while catastrophic fail-ures concentrate in the Moirai shift corner, espe-cially the volatile single-series EPF . Despite low overlap in accepted feature names across splits, performance transfers because different runs often discover functionally equivalent features. Correc-tive feature discovery therefore recovers reusable residual structure, not per-window noise. 

6 Conclusion 

We studied corrective feature discovery: correct-ing a frozen black-box forecaster by mining inter-pretable features of its residual instead of retraining it. C RAFTER mines the residual with a composi-tional search and a language model, and admits their candidates through one validation-grounded gate that is blind to a feature’s origin. The shared gate turns two generators into a single method and lets any external feature-engineering system run through the identical pipeline, so C RAFTER also serves as an instrument that attributes a change in the forecast to the feature source alone. Cor-rection pays in proportion to the residual’s ex-ploitable structure: large on weak backbones with informative forecast covariates, where LLM-named features are the differentiator, and neutral once a strong backbone already fits the series—we report the saturated cells alongside the wins. The finding holds across six backbones and two LLM back-ends, is not bought with a larger feature budget, and survives fine-tuning. Because features learned on one window transfer to the next on the datasets we test (§5.5), a natural next step is a lightweight feature-memory that carries mined features forward to amortize the search and warm-start the correc-tor, adapting as a backbone’s errors evolve across windows. 

References               

> Nikhil Abhyankar, Parshin Shojaee, and Chandan K. Reddy. 2025. Llm-fe: Automated feature engineer-ing for tabular data with llms as evolutionary opti-mizers. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.14434 .Abdul Fatir Ansari, Oleksandr Shchur, Jaris Küken, An-dreas Auer, Boran Han, Pedro Mercado, Syama Sun-dar Rangapuram, Huibin Shen, Lorenzo Stella, Xiyuan Zhang, Mononito Goswami, Shubham Kapoor, Danielle C. Maddix, Pablo Guerron, Tony Hu, Junming Yin, Nick Erickson, Prateek Mutalik Desai, Hao Wang, and 4 others. 2025. Chronos-2: From univariate to universal forecasting. Preprint ,arXiv:2510.15821. Abdul Fatir Ansari, Lorenzo Stella, Ali Caner Turk-men, Xiyuan Zhang, Pedro Mercado, Huibin Shen, Oleksandr Shchur, Syama Sundar Rangapu-ram, Sebastian Pineda Arango, Shubham Kapoor, Jasper Zschiegner, Danielle C. Maddix, Hao Wang, Michael W. Mahoney, Kari Torkkola, Andrew Gor-don Wilson, Michael Bohlke-Schneider, and Bernie Wang. 2024. Chronos: Learning the language of time series. Transactions on Machine Learning Research .Expert Certification.

9Peter Auer, Nicolò Cesa-Bianchi, and Paul Fischer. 2002. Finite-time analysis of the multiarmed ban-dit problem. Machine Learning , 47(2–3):235–256. Vitor Cerqueira, Nuno Moniz, and Carlos Soares. 2020. Vest: Automatic feature engineering for forecasting. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2010.07137 .Hamza Cherkaoui, Malik Tiomoko, Giuseppe Paolo, Yili Zhang, Meng Yu, Keli Zhang, and Hafiz Tiomoko Ali. 2025. Post-training corrections for improved time-series forecasting. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.15354 .Maximilian Christ, Nils Braun, Julius Neuffer, and An-dreas W. Kempa-Liehr. 2018. Time series FeatuRe extraction on basis of scalable hypothesis tests (ts-fresh – a Python package). Neurocomputing , 307:72– 77. Ben Cohen, Emaad Khwaja, Kan Wang, Charles Masson, Elise Ramé, Youssef Doubli, and Oth-mane Abou-Amal. 2024. Toto: Time series opti-mized transformer for observability. arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.07874 .Pedro Miguel Pinto Costa. 2021. Autofits: Automated feature engineering for irregular time-series. Mas-ter’s thesis, Universidade do Porto. Xilin Dai, Yiding Liu, Hongjie Xia, Yifan Hu, Zewei Dong, Jiang-Ming Yang, and Qiang Xu. 2026a. Learning the context of errors: Black-box online adaptation of time series foundation models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2606.14222 .Ziming Dai, Dabiao Ma, Jinle Tong, Mengyuan Han, Jian Yang, Hongtao Liu, Haojun Fei, and Qing Yang. 2026b. NSR-Boost: A neuro-symbolic residual boosting framework for industrial legacy models. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2601.10457 .Langzhou He, Junyou Zhu, Fangxin Wang, Junhua Liu, Haoyan Xu, Yue Zhao, Philip S. Yu, and Qitian Wu. 2025. Can molecular foundation models know what they don’t know? a simple remedy with preference optimization. Preprint , arXiv:2509.25509. Noah Hollmann, Samuel Müller, and Frank Hutter. 2023. Large language models for automated data science: Introducing caafe for context-aware automated fea-ture engineering. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.03403 .Neil Houlsby, Andrei Giurgiu, Stanislaw Jastrzebski, Bruna Morrone, Quentin de Laroussilhe, Andrea Gesmundo, Mona Attariyan, and Sylvain Gelly. 2019. Parameter-efficient transfer learning for nlp. 

Preprint , arXiv:1902.00751. Edward J. Hu, Yelong Shen, Phillip Wallis, Zeyuan Allen-Zhu, Yuanzhi Li, Shean Wang, Lu Wang, and Weizhu Chen. 2021. Lora: Low-rank adaptation of large language models. Preprint , arXiv:2106.09685. Yiran Huang, Yexu Zhou, Michael Hefenbrock, Till Riedel, Likun Fang, and Michael Beigl. 2022. Auto-matic feature engineering through Monte Carlo tree search. In Machine Learning and Knowledge Discov-ery in Databases (ECML PKDD) , volume 13715 of 

Lecture Notes in Computer Science . Springer. Kaggle. 2015. Rossmann store sales. Kaggle competition, https://www.kaggle.com/c/ rossmann-store-sales .Kaggle. 2017. Corporación favorita grocery sales fore-casting. Kaggle competition, https://www.kaggle. com/c/favorita-grocery-sales-forecasting .Kaggle. 2024. Rohlik sales forecast-ing challenge. Kaggle competition, 

https://www.kaggle.com/competitions/ rohlik-sales-forecasting-challenge .Udayan Khurana, Horst Samulowitz, and Deepak Turaga. 2018. Feature engineering for predictive modeling using reinforcement learning. In Proceed-ings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence ,volume 32. Levente Kocsis and Csaba Szepesvári. 2006. Bandit based monte-carlo planning. In Machine Learning: ECML 2006 , pages 282–293. Springer. Jesus Lago, Grzegorz Marcjasz, Bart De Schutter, and Rafał Weron. 2021. Forecasting day-ahead electricity prices: A review of state-of-the-art algorithms, best practices and an open-access benchmark. Applied Energy , 293:116983. Daojun Liang, Qi Li, Yinglong Wang, Jing Chen, Hu Zhang, Xiaoxiao Cui, Qizheng Wang, and Shuo Li. 2026. The forecast after the forecast: A post-processing shift in time series. arXiv preprint arXiv:2601.20280 .Chenghao Liu, Taha Aksu, Juncheng Liu, Xu Liu, Han-shu Yan, Quang Pham, Silvio Savarese, Doyen Sahoo, Caiming Xiong, and Junnan Li. 2025a. Moirai 2.0: When less is more for time series forecasting. arXiv preprint arXiv:2511.11698 .Fengze Liu, Haoyu Wang, Joonhyuk Cho, Dan Roth, and Andrew W. Lo. 2025b. AutoCT: Automating in-terpretable clinical trial prediction with LLM agents. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.04293 .Yong Liu, Haoran Zhang, Chenyu Li, Xiangdong Huang, Jianmin Wang, and Mingsheng Long. 2024. Timer: generative pre-trained transformers are large time series models. In Proceedings of the 41st In-ternational Conference on Machine Learning , pages 32369–32399. Alfredo Lopez and Florian Sobieczky. 2024. Surro-gate modeling for explainable predictive time series corrections. arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.19897 .

10 Sisuo Lyu, Siru Zhong, Tiegang Chen, Weilin Ruan, Qingxiang Liu, Taiqiang Lv, Qingsong Wen, Ray-mond Chi-Wing Wong, and Yuxuan Liang. 2026. TS-Memory: Plug-and-play memory for time series foun-dation models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.11550 .Spyros Makridakis, Evangelos Spiliotis, and Vassilios Assimakopoulos. 2022. M5 accuracy competition: Results, findings, and conclusions. International Journal of Forecasting , 38(4):1346–1364. Andrew Murray, Danial Dervovic, and Michael Cash-more. 2025. Elate: Evolutionary language model for automated time-series engineering. arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.14667 .Jaehyun Nam, Kyuyoung Kim, Seunghyuk Oh, Ji-hoon Tack, Jaehyung Kim, and Jinwoo Shin. 2024. Optimized feature generation for tabular data via llms with decision tree reasoning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.08527 .Santosh Palaskar, Vijay Ekambaram, Arindam Jati, Neelamadhav Gantayat, Avirup Saha, Seema Na-gar, Nam H. Nguyen, Pankaj Dayama, Renuka Sind-hgatta, Prateeti Mohapatra, Harshit Kumar, Jayant Kalagnanam, Nandyala Hemachandra, and Narayan Rangaraj. 2024. Automixer for improved multivari-ate time-series forecasting on business and it observ-ability data. Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence , 38(21):22962–22968. Oleksandr Shchur, Ali Caner Turkmen, Nick Erick-son, Huibin Shen, Alexander Shirkov, Tony Hu, and Bernie Wang. 2023. AutoGluon-TimeSeries: Au-toML for probabilistic time series forecasting. In 

Proceedings of the Second International Conference on Automated Machine Learning (AutoML) .Zhendong Wang, Ioanna Miliou, Isak Samsten, and Panagiotis Papapetrou. 2023. Counterfactual expla-nations for time series forecasting. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.08137 .Gerald Woo, Chenghao Liu, Akshat Kumar, Caiming Xiong, Silvio Savarese, and Doyen Sahoo. 2024. Uni-fied training of universal time series forecasting trans-formers. In Proceedings of the 41st International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML) .G. Peter Zhang. 2003. Time series forecasting using a hybrid ARIMA and neural network model. Neuro-computing , 50:159–175. Tianping Zhang, Zheyu Zhang, Zhiyuan Fan, Haoyan Luo, Fengyuan Liu, Qian Liu, Wei Cao, and Jian Li. 2022. OpenFE: Automated feature genera-tion with expert-level performance. arXiv preprint arXiv:2211.12507 .

11 Appendix 

Tables, figures, algorithms and equations below carry an S prefix (Table S1, Fig. S1, Alg. S1, Eq. (S1)); plain references (§3.2, Fig. 2a, Table 1) point to the main paper above. 

A Correction Target and Metric 

For each series and forecast origin we observe a history x1: T , a frozen backbone forecast ˆy1: H over horizon H, and (at training time) the truth y1: H .CRAFTER predicts a per-series multiplicative cor-rection factor 

˜y1: H = f · ˆy1: H ,f = clip 

 P   

> hyhP
> hˆyh

, ℓ, u 



, [ℓ, u ] = [0 .3, 3.0] ,

(S1) with the clip admitting genuine multiplicative struc-ture (e.g., promotions, price changes) while re-jecting heavy-tailed ratios from near-zero denom-inators; an additive-offset target f + = P 

> h

yh −P 

> h

ˆyh is also supported and selected against within the corrector set (§3.4). We report the weighted mean absolute percentage error of the horizon total, 

wM AP E =

P

> i

P 

> h

˜yi,h − P 

> h

yi,h 

P

> i

P 

> h

yi,h 

. (S2) We score the horizon total because it is the quantity deployment consumes—replenishment, procure-ment, and capacity decisions are driven by aggre-gate demand over the lead time—and the quan-tity the correction factor of Eq. (S1) acts on. The comparison stays fair: every method, the frozen backbone included, is scored on the same total. 

B The C RAFTER Round 

Alg. S1 gives one round of the loop sketched in §3.1. A run repeats it for R rounds, threading the accepted-feature set F, the search arm statistics 

Θ, and the channel pool C across rounds. The two generators of §3.2 appear as Exploration (com-positional UCB search, §3.2) and Reasoning (the LLM roles, §3.2); both feed the single source-blind gate of §3.3 (line 6), which keeps only can-didates whose Spearman correlation with the unex-plained validation residual exceeds τ , that are not collinear with an accepted feature, and that fit the per-family and per-round budgets. After refitting, a per-tier permutation step prunes the lowest-value features by ∆validation-wMAPE (line 8), and the kept/trimmed outcome plus the realized validation gain is credited back to the search arms as UCB feedback. The cross-round coupling shown—LLM-named base columns entering C so the search can compose them (line 7)—is one of the two channels CRAFTER † enables (§3.2); it is off in the decou-pled C RAFTER .

C Feature Grammar 

A corrective feature is a structured specification: a typed record that compiles deterministically to one numeric column over items. Specifications take one of three types, and every field is drawn from a fixed vocabulary, so the space is bounded, searchable, and canonicalizable. The atomic search emits combo records; the LLM emits combo , flag ,and code records, which the rest of the paper names 

LLM-combo , LLM-flag , and LLM-code .• combo — a pairwise expression 

> POST

 τa(ca) ⊕ τb(cb), where ca, c b

are input channels (base features or covari-ates), τ• are unary transforms, ⊕ is a binary operator, and POST is an optional output transform with an optional clip (a single transformed channel when cb, ⊕ are omitted). • flag — a 0/1 indicator formed by com-bining a small set of thresholded conditions 

{(c, op , v )} with all /any .• code — a short Python function over the target history and the backbone fore-cast, restricted by an abstract-syntax-tree allow-list to numpy , math , and 

scipy.{signal,stats,fft,special} 

with no I/O, exec , or eval .

Vocabulary. The search ranges over B=8 binary operators ⊕ ∈{add , sub , mul , div , abs_diff , min , max , safe_div }

and T =15 unary transforms τ ∈ {null ,neg ,

abs ,log ,log1p ,signlog ,sqrt ,square ,exp ,

sigmoid ,tanh ,softplus ,zscore ,winsorize ,ema 

}; flag conditions draw from the operators 

{<, ≤, >, ≥, =,̸ =, between , in , not_in }. The executor additionally admits a few rarer trans-forms and operators (e.g., geo_mean , quantile summaries); these are reachable by the LLM but outside the atomic search’s UCB vocabulary. 

Feature families. Each channel belongs to one mechanism family , the unit L1 routes over (§3.2). Representative families and example 12 channels: level (mean_sales , zero_ratio ); 

trend (trend_ratio , trend_consistency ); 

seasonality (autocorr7 , seasonal_strength ); 

volatility (cv , outlier_rate ); shift 

(regime_shift , shift_magnitude ); anomaly 

(spike_ratio , consecutive_zeros ). 

Example. The JSON record {type:combo, feat_a:cv, feat_b:mean_sales, op:div, transform_a:log, transform_b:null} de-notes log(cv) /mean _sales and is named accord-ingly. A canonical key maps equivalent records to one identifier: the display name and all book-keeping fields (source, family, scores) are dropped, the empty/ null /identity transforms collapse to a single sentinel, numeric thresholds and clips are rounded, and flag conditions are sorted, so the key is an order- and rename-invariant hash of the remaining grammar fields. It drives cross-round de-duplication and a rejection blacklist that suppresses any candidate already tried and refused. 

D Corrector and Hyperparameters 

The corrector is a histogram gradient-boosted re-gressor ( 200 trees, max depth 4, learning rate 

0.1, min-samples-leaf 20 ). The corrector set com-prises {NONE , additive , multiplicative-factor } cor-rectors, the best selected by validation wMAPE; the multiplicative-factor head is the strongest on weak-backbone × forecast-covariate cells, where a per-row learned factor is more flexible than per-horizon offsets. We fix its clip to [0 .3, 3.0] 

rather than a dataset-adaptive bound: an adap-tive bound is occasionally tighter on clean retail but blows up on weak-backbone × LLM cells, so we trade a little adaptivity to remove that failure mode. Acceptance gate: a candidate is kept iff 

|ρSpearman (feature , unexplained residual )| ≥ τ ,pairwise |ρ| ≤ 0.75 , with at most two features per family and ten per round. The threshold is a single global constant τ =0 .05 , fixed across all datasets rather than tuned per series, so there is no per-dataset grid. Search defaults: a four-layer conditioned UCB1 tree with exploration constant 

κ=1 .4, R=3 rounds, and K=4 planner directions; the selection, update, and reward rules follow. 

Bandit selection and update. The compositional search is a Monte-Carlo tree of UCB1 bandits with one arm per choice at each layer (family, then arity, then channels, then operator). Every arm a stores a visit count na and a running mean reward ˆμa;each L1 family arm keeps one (na, ˆμa) pair per arity, so univariate and bivariate evidence never mix. At a node whose children are A with total visits N = P 

> a′∈A

na′ , the descent selects the arm that maximizes the UCB1 score, 

a⋆ = arg max  

> a∈A

ˆμa + κ

r ln Nna

, (S3) visiting any never-tried arm ( na=0 ) first. Once an arm’s candidate has been scored, or a round has finished, the arm is credited with a reward r and updated by the incremental sample mean 

na ← na + 1 , ˆμa ← ˆμa + 1

na

 r − ˆμa

, (S4) applied to every arm on the selected root-to-leaf path; a decayed copy is also propagated to sibling contexts that share the family or base channel. The reward combines two signals. A fast per-candidate proxy is available already at scoring time, 

rproxy = α |ρ|+β I[accepted ], α=0 .4, β =0 .3,

(S5) where ρ is the Spearman correlation between the candidate and the still-unexplained validation resid-ual and I[accepted ] marks passing the acceptance gate above. After the corrector is refit at each round’s end, a realized signal supplements the proxy: every surviving feature is credited in pro-portion to its gradient-boosting importance, plus a 

γ=0 .3 round-level term on the round’s validation-wMAPE improvement. The proxy steers explo-ration cheaply within a round; the realized signal ties the search to the deployed corrector, so a fea-ture is ultimately worth what keeping it actually buys. 

Why gradient-boosted trees. The residual is nonlinear and regime-dependent, concentrating in promotions, regime shifts, and rare events, so a lin-ear corrector cannot fit it. Gradient-boosted trees have the capacity and keep the correction auditable: a per-feature importance names which mechanism drives a backbone’s residual. Read across back-bones, the corrector diagnoses each model’s blind spots, naming what a given backbone systemati-cally misses (§5.2). 

Protocol and compute. All backbone forecasts are computed once on NVIDIA A100/A40 GPUs and cached; because random seeds do not change a frozen backbone’s forecast, the entire multi-seed grid (seeds 42 –44 × three rolling splits per cell) 13 reuses the warm cache with no GPU recomputa-tion, and the residual-correction loop itself runs on CPU. The stack is Python 3.12, with PyTorch 2.x for the backbone runners and LightGBM 4.x for the corrector. A full single-seed sweep of the grid completes in ∼30 minutes on warm caches— orders of magnitude cheaper than per-dataset back-bone fine-tuning, which requires a GPU training run for every (dataset, backbone) pair. We report last-round ( R=3 ) test wMAPE, averaged over the three splits and three seeds, and decompose vari-ance into seed (optimizer/LLM-sampling) and split (temporal-drift) components; split variance dom-inates. Quantified per cell on the DeepSeek grid (wMAPE ×100 ): the median seed-std of C RAFTER 

is 0.49 against a median split-std of ∼3.2; the frozen backbone is seed-deterministic, the no-LLM and TSF RESH columns sit near 0.02 , and the LLM methods’ seed noise concentrates on EPF .

Per-arity statistics and the univariate transform. 

Each L1 family arm stores two independent (count, mean) pairs, one per arity, so univariate and bi-variate evidence never mix. We do not search the univariate transform: with only T =15 options and that branch serving mainly to surface new chan-nels for later composition, a bandit there would chiefly drain samples from the bivariate branch, where the B T 2 operator-triple choice carries the reward. Because the bivariate branch is sampled far more often, its visit count grows much faster; we periodically rebalance the two arities’ counts so the exploration bonus κpln N/n does not lock onto the under-sampled univariate arity. 

E External-System Adaptation 

The three external systems run inside the C RAFTER 

harness: the same cached backbone residual, the same base and covariate columns, the same gradient-boosted corrector and corrector-set selec-tion, and the same validation top-K feature selector. Only the candidate generator is swapped, so the comparison isolates feature generation (§4). Each generator is kept as close to its published form as the forecasting setting allows. • TSFresh extracts its standard statistical bank over each series history through the library’s own extractor ( ∼30 statistics per series), from which the shared selector keeps the top K.• CAAFE targets classification, so its LLM it-eration loop’s validation-accuracy acceptance test runs on the residual ratio discretized into three bins (over-, well-, and under-predicted); the accepted features themselves remain con-tinuous columns for the shared corrector. • LLM-FE runs its evolutionary loop, with LLM-proposed mutations and crossovers over a population of feature expressions and fitness the validation correlation against the same residual target. The two LLM-based systems use the same backend, per-run seed, and feature budget as C RAFTER . We do not run the systems’ native end-to-end pipelines, because they target tabular prediction with their own downstream model: a native run would change the corrector, the target, and the metric at once, and a difference in the final forecast could then no longer be attributed to the feature source. This inside-the-harness design is the point of the instru-ment (§3.3); its cost is that we measure each system as a feature generator for residual correction, not its native end-to-end performance. 

F Fine-tuning baseline 

The FT baseline in Table S12 applies a uniform head-only fine-tune to every backbone (training the output head with the backbone frozen), early-stopping on validation wMAPE with the test win-dow untouched, on splits identical to C RAFTER ; a constant recipe keeps the comparison fair across backbones. As a stronger check, the two Moirai backbones, which ship an official recipe, addi-tionally receive a full-parameter in-domain fine-tune (Table S2): it reuses the official uni2ts 

MOIRAI FINETUNE module and loss but masks the last H patches (eval-aligned) rather than at random, selects checkpoints on validation wMAPE rather than NLL, and trains in fp32 with gradient clipping and warmup. The comprehensive grid (Table S1; all six backbones × six datasets, both backbone branches × four correction gradients) reports this head-only FT next to each correction level. The grids are single-seed (42), split-averaged, so ab-solute values differ slightly from the 3-seed main table, most visibly on the volatile single-series EPF ;the before/after comparison of Fig. 2a (top vs. bot-tom) uses both branches within the same seed and is unaffected. Fine-tuning requires a GPU training run for every (dataset, backbone) pair, orders of magnitude more costly than the GPU-free correc-tion loop (App. D). 14 Table S1: Fine-tuning does not remove the gain (full grid). Test wMAPE ×100 (lower is better) for the four correction gradients—no correction (R AW zero-shot / FT fine-tuned), covariate-only corrector (C OV ), C RAFTER ,and C RAFTER †—on the zero-shot and the fine-tuned backbone, over all 6 backbones × 6 datasets ( CHR 2 is covariate-aware Chronos-2, single-seed; its covariate-only corrector was not re-run on the fine-tuned branch, so the two C OV columns carry the same value). Fine-tuning is the uniform head-only probe (full-parameter Moirai in Table S2). On the non-saturated datasets ( EPF , ROSSMANN , ROHLIK ) the ordering C RAFTER < COV < no-correction holds on both branches; M5 is saturated and all gradients coincide. The C RAFTER and C RAFTER †

columns ( gray ) are highlighted in both branches. Bold marks the best gradient within each branch (a C RAFTER 

variant when it ties). Single seed (42), split-averaged. 

Zero-shot backbone Fine-tuned backbone (head-only) Dataset BB RAW COV CRAFTER CRAFTER † FT COV CRAFTER CRAFTER †

epf tim 53.7 46.2 30.2 30.2 56.9 43.5 31.1 31.2 

chr 49.9 45.4 32.0 31.7 52.0 44.2 32.6 30.2 

moi 73.2 60.7 36.8 28.4 71.2 56.4 44.5 30.2 

toto 55.8 49.8 31.6 28.8 55.8 49.8 40.4 30.7 

chr 2 52.6 43.7 37.1 32.2 55.1 43.7 42.4 55.0 moi 2 55.0 41.6 38.6 50.7 55.0 41.8 42.1 29.7 

rossmann tim 39.5 16.7 13.5 13.5 39.5 16.8 13.7 13.4 

chr 20.6 11.9 11.3 11.3 21.3 14.0 13.4 13.2 

moi 30.0 24.7 13.4 13.1 29.8 24.7 13.0 13.1 

toto 22.2 14.5 12.5 12.2 22.2 14.4 12.2 12.2 

chr 2 20.4 15.9 13.1 12.8 21.1 15.9 12.5 14.0 

moi 2 21.4 12.6 11.7 11.7 21.4 12.6 12.1 11.7 

rohlik tim 36.1 33.4 28.6 28.6 30.3 27.2 26.7 26.7 

chr 27.4 24.7 24.4 24.4 27.2 24.5 24.3 24.3 

moi 36.2 33.5 28.5 28.4 31.2 28.3 27.6 27.6 

toto 28.2 25.1 24.8 24.9 28.2 25.3 25.1 25.2 

chr 2 26.6 23.8 23.6 23.6 27.1 23.8 24.0 23.9 moi 2 34.9 32.2 28.0 28.0 29.2 26.3 25.4 25.4 

bizitobs tim 49.5 42.4 36.7 41.9 51.9 41.8 42.3 34.3 

chr 24.6 25.7 30.1 24.6 25.0 25.6 26.1 25.9 moi 51.5 43.5 39.1 39.3 50.9 42.3 40.2 36.8 

toto 39.0 40.9 37.6 35.3 39.0 40.9 35.2 37.2 

chr 2 23.6 31.0 31.1 31.4 25.3 31.0 30.6 30.4 moi 2 27.1 27.7 27.3 26.3 27.1 27.7 26.6 31.1 favorita tim 24.9 21.8 21.4 21.7 23.2 21.6 20.5 20.5 

chr 17.5 17.6 17.5 17.6 17.4 17.6 17.1 17.4 

moi 20.6 19.8 19.7 19.7 20.6 19.8 19.9 19.9 toto 17.4 17.7 17.5 17.4 17.4 17.7 17.4 17.5 chr 2 14.4 15.2 15.3 15.9 14.6 15.2 15.7 15.4 moi 2 16.5 16.6 16.5 16.5 16.5 16.6 16.6 16.5 

m5 tim 52.5 51.0 51.1 51.2 51.4 50.8 50.9 50.9 chr 50.3 50.3 50.1 50.0 49.9 49.9 50.0 49.9 

moi 52.2 52.1 51.2 50.9 52.2 52.1 51.0 51.0 

toto 49.7 50.1 49.9 50.0 49.7 50.1 49.9 50.0 chr 2 50.4 51.2 50.2 50.3 49.5 51.2 50.3 50.3 moi 2 49.0 49.3 49.5 49.5 49.0 49.3 49.3 49.5 

15 Table S2: Full-parameter Moirai stress test. The four correction gradients on a fully fine-tuned Moirai backbone— no correction (FT), covariate-only corrector (C OV ), C RAFTER , and C RAFTER †—alongside the zero-shot branch, for the two covariate-capable Moirai models (test wMAPE ×100 , lower is better). C RAFTER still helps on 6 of 

8 fine-tuned cells; fine-tuning rarely beats correcting the frozen backbone. The C RAFTER /C RAFTER † columns ( gray ) are highlighted; bold marks a corrector that beats both no-correction baselines in its branch (R AW /C OV on the left, FT/C OV on the right), the Table S12 rule. Exceptions: FAVORITA , BIZITOBS under Moirai-2.0. Single seed (42), split-averaged.                                                                                 

> Zero-shot backbone Fine-tuned backbone (full-param) Dataset BB RAW COV CRAFTER CRAFTER †FT COV CRAFTER CRAFTER †
> epf moi 73.2 60.8 36.7 28.4 60.8 55.5 37.8 44.4
> moi 255.0 41.6 38.6 45.8 55.0 41.6 32.2 29.0
> rossmann moi 30.0 26.2 13.2 13.0 26.1 24.9 17.2 16.4
> moi 221.4 12.6 11.8 12.0 21.4 12.6 11.9 11.6
> bizitobs moi 51.5 43.5 38.5 39.5 55.1 53.5 40.7 38.8
> moi 227.1 30.1 31.0 30.5 27.1 30.1 29.6 28.9 favorita moi 20.6 20.3 20.1 20.4 25.4 23.3 22.5 22.4
> moi 216.5 16.6 16.5 16.5 16.5 16.6 17.9 17.8

G Covariate routing and native multivariate forecasting 

These two ablations support §5.4: the corrector’s gain is decoupled from how a covariate-capable or multivariate-capable backbone uses its richer input path. 

Covariates in the backbone vs. the corrector. 

Table S3 feeds known covariates to the frozen back-bone (R AW +cov) instead of routing them to the corrector. Toto ingests them harmlessly ( ∆ ≤ 0

on every dataset) while Moirai-2.0 misuses them, degrading R AW by up to 45 .8% (ROSSMANN ); nei-ther backbone turns covariate access into a real gain. Routing the same covariates to the corrector instead yields large gains, and C RAFTER reaches compa-rable accuracy whether or not the backbone was given the covariates—recovering even where the cov-fed backbone degraded its own R AW (Moirai-2.0 ROSSMANN , 31 .1→13 .8 vs. 11 .8 on the uni-variate backbone). The corrector’s gain is therefore largely independent of how, or whether, the back-bone ingests covariates; the lone volatile EPF series is the one exception. Timer and Chronos are uni-variate and cannot ingest covariates. 

Native multivariate forecasting. BIZITOBS is the one panel with several jointly forecastable chan-nels. Table S4 compares per-channel (uni) with joint (mv) backbone forecasting on the two natively multivariate backbones. Joint forecasting improves Toto’s any-variate R AW and badly degrades the small Moirai-2.0, but the corrector behaves iden-tically on either forecast (the same small lift in both the uni and mv columns), so the uni/mv gap is set by the backbone, not the wrapper. Timer and Chronos are univariate; Moirai is multivariate-capable but not run here. Importantly, native multi-variate forecasting changes the backbone, not the wrapper. On BIZITOBS , the only panel where sev-eral channels can be forecast jointly, native multi-variate forecasting is strongly backbone-dependent: it improves Toto’s raw forecast but degrades the smaller Moirai-2.0 model (App. Table S4). The correction layer behaves similarly on either raw forecast. Thus the univariate–multivariate gap is mainly a property of the backbone’s input path, whereas C RAFTER remains a black-box residual correction layer that applies after either choice. 

H LLM Roles and Prompts 

CRAFTER calls a single LLM provider in four roles: a fast tier runs the P LANNER , a reasoning tier runs the S PECIFIER and R EFLECTION , and a BASE PROPOSER invents new base columns. The legacy R ERANKER is disabled—the merged candi-date pool is gated deterministically by the source-blind rule of §3.3, not by an LLM. Across a run (three rounds) the LLM is queried about a dozen times ( ∼4 per round): each exploration round runs a P LANNER that proposes the round’s directions, a SPECIFIER per direction, a B ASE PROPOSER , and 16 Table S3: Covariates belong in the corrector, not the backbone (DeepSeek-3.4-pro backend, test wMAPE ×100 ,three-split mean, seed 42). R AW is the univariate backbone; R AW +cov feeds covariates to the frozen backbone, with 

∆ the resulting change in R AW (positive = worse). C RAFTER (uni) and C RAFTER (cov) place the corrector on the univariate and the cov-fed backbone respectively (the two gray columns; bold = beats both R AW and R AW +cov in that row, the Table S12 rule). Feeding covariates to the backbone is at best neutral (Toto, ∆ ≤ 0 throughout) and often harmful (Moirai-2.0), whereas routing them to the corrector yields large gains; the two C RAFTER columns match across the retail panels, so the corrector’s gain is decoupled from how the backbone routes covariates ( EPF 

excepted). Timer and Chronos are univariate and cannot ingest covariates; Moirai covariate injection was run single-split only; BIZITOBS has no covariates. M5 is evaluated on this grid’s own series basis, so its R AW differs slightly from Table S12; compare within the table. 

BB Dataset RAW RAW +cov ∆ CRAFTER (uni) CRAFTER (cov) Toto epf 55.8 52.6 −5.7% 39.3 50.9 

rossmann 22.2 22.1 −0.7% 13.5 13.6 

rohlik 28.2 27.9 −0.9% 25.0 24.8 

favorita 17.4 17.4 −0.1% 17.6 17.6 m5 50.6 49.3 −2.5% 50.6 49.4 Moirai-2 epf 55.0 54.5 −0.9% 46.5 42.9 

rossmann 21.4 31.1 +45 .8% 11.8 13.8 

rohlik 34.9 35.3 +1 .0% 32.3 31.9 

favorita 16.5 18.9 +14 .5% 16.5 18.2 m5 49.9 49.8 −0.2% 50.0 50.2 

Table S4: Native multivariate forecasting on BIZ - 

> ITOBS

(DeepSeek-3.4-pro backend, test wMAPE ×100 ,three-split mean, seed 42). uni = per-channel, mv =

joint forecast. C RAFTER shows a similar lift over R AW 

in both columns; the uni/mv difference comes from the backbone’s joint-forecast quality. 

RAW CRAFTER 

BB uni mv uni mv Toto 39.0 38.3 41.5 39.6 Moirai-2 27.1 39.2 26.2 38.8 

a R EFLECTION call only when fewer than three candidates pass the gate. Every system prompt is parameterized by a per-dataset domain preamble (the dataset name, a one-line domain hint, and a role-specific note). We show each role’s system and user templates below; run-time inputs appear as {placeholders} and the model must reply in strict JSON. 

Planner (fast tier). Inputs: round index, validation-wMAPE trajectory, per-family coverage, under-served families, chronic failure subgroups, and rejection fingerprints by family. Output: ex-actly K exploration directions. 

System. “You are a feature-exploration planner for {domain} time-series forecasting. Each round you see current feature coverage, chronic failure subgroups, recent rejection fingerprints grouped by family, and the wMAPE trend over recent rounds. Output K structured exploration 

directions ; each tells the downstream Specifier which family/subgroup to design for, what type of signal ( combo , flag , or both), and which base feats to use. Return strict JSON 

{directions:[{family, target_subgroup, base_feat_pool, spec_type_hint, mechanism_hint, rationale}]} . Con-straints: return exactly K directions; family 

from the allowed names; base_feat_pool asubset of the supplied feats; do not repeat a (family, subgroup) pair; prioritize under-served families and chronic subgroups.” 

User. “Round {r} , K={k} . wMAPE trajectory (last 5): {...} . Family names, coverage, under-served families, chronic subgroups (top 8), and rejections by family over the last 3 rounds: 

{...} . Existing dynamic features (top 30, with 

ρ): {...} . Available base feats: {...} . Output exactly K directions as JSON.” 

Specifier (reasoning tier). Inputs: one Plan-ner direction (family, optional subgroup, base-feat pool, signal-type hint, mechanism hint), up to eight chronic failure cases, and in-scope re-jections to avoid. Output: 5–8 named specs (combo /flag /code ). 

System. “You are a feature engineer for {domain} 

time-series forecasting. You receive one exploration direction (family + optional target subgroup + allowed base-feat pool + mechanism hint). Strictly within that direction, produce 5–8 structured feature specs ( combo , flag , or 

code ). Hard constraints: combo /flag may use only feats in base_feat_pool ; code specs may read the target history and the backbone forecast but may import only numpy , math ,and scipy.{signal,stats,fft,special} ,with no I/O, exec , eval , open , loops, or 

try ; do not resubmit a spec identical to a rejected one on (op, feat set, transforms); 

17 every spec must pass validate_spec . Out-put JSON under missing_features , each entry a combo (feature_name, feat_a, feat_b, op, transform_a, transform_b, post_transform ), a flag (conditions, combine, then, else ), or a code spec (compute_func_code ). Guidance: the atomic search already covers plain combo /unary features, so prioritize flag (multi-condition thresholds the search cannot express) and code (FFT, autocor-relation, Hurst, windowed statistics); of the 5–8 specs keep combo ≤ 2 and flag +code ≥ 60% .” 

User. “family, target_subgroup, base_feat_pool, spec_type_hint, mechanism_hint: {...} .Chronic failure cases (for inspiration): {...} .Rejected fingerprints in this direction (avoid the same mechanism): {...} . Produce 5–8 specs as strict JSON under missing_features .” 

Reflection (reasoning tier; fires only when <3

candidates pass the gate in a round). Inputs: 

one rejected candidate spec, its rejection reason (pair-rho-high or marginal-rho-low ), and the direction’s mechanism hint. Output: exactly one rewritten spec with a different mechanism. 

System. “You are a feature-improvement ex-pert for {domain} time-series forecasting. You receive a candidate rejected by the novelty gate, its rejection reason, and the direction’s mechanism hint. Rewrite one new spec with a different mechanism—you must change at least one of transform , feat_b , or op ; renam-ing alone does not count. Output JSON un-der missing_features containing exactly one spec.” 

User. “Rejected candidate: {spec} . re-ject_reason: {...} . mechanism_hint: {...} .Rewrite one spec with a different mechanism.” 

Base Proposer (invents new base columns that join the channel pool and become searchable next round). Inputs: round index, existing base-feature names, recent residual statistics, and chronic worst subgroups. Output: new univariate base-feature functions. 

System. “You design new base-level features for {domain} time-series forecasting that feed the residual-correction GBDT. Each feature is a Python function compute_NAME(history, chronos_pred) returning one scalar, where 

chronos_pred is the backbone forecast. Al-lowed: numpy (as np ), arithmetic, and simple control flow. Forbidden: any import , I/O, 

exec /eval /open , and referencing both history 

and chronos_pred in one function (each base feat must summarize a single input; cross-source interactions are left to the atomic search). Output strict JSON under proposals , each 

{feature_name, family, rationale, code} 

with family from the allowed set. Target patterns the existing base set under-represents and keep proposals mutually orthogonal.” 

User. “Round {r} . Generate {n} new base fea-tures. Existing base names (avoid duplicates): 

{...} . Recent residual stats: {...} . Chronic worst subgroups: {...} . Output strict JSON with a proposals list; each function takes ( history ,

chronos_pred ) and returns a float.” 

I Framework Comparison: With vs. Without the LLM 

Table S5 contrasts the C RAFTER pipeline with and without the LLM agent at the component level. The two columns are the C RAFTER -noLLM and CRAFTER columns of Table S12; the counts are means per cell over the GPT-5.2 grid (selected =

admitted to the corrector). Adding the composi-tional search on top of the covariate-only corrector moves accuracy by ≈0 (better-or-equal on 10 /30 

cells, mean +0 .006 wMAPE); adding the LLM on top of the search is the decisive step (mean −0.037 

wMAPE, better on 28 /30 cells), and the gain con-centrates on the weak-backbone cells where a se-mantic signal exists. At the level of accepted fea-tures, the LLM also dominates the final corrector: about three-quarters of admitted features are LLM-proposed, with LLM-combo features the most effi-cient and LLM-code features almost always pruned (per-source counts in Table S6, broken down by dataset and backbone in §J). 

Table S5: Component-level comparison of C RAFTER 

with vs. without the LLM agent. Counts are per-cell means over the GPT-5.2 grid. 

Aspect no-LLM (search only) CRAFTER (full) Feature source composed channels 

+ LLM-flag/combo/code Semantic naming no yes Search guidance syntactic UCB LLM directions +

UCB LLM calls / round 0 ∼4

Interpretable names composed exprs named domain features Selected features ∼3.5 (all atomic) 

∼12 .4 (∼74% 

LLM) Gain vs. previous step 

≈0 (10 /30 ) −0.037 wMAPE (28 /30 )Where it helps composed structure weak backbone, semantic signal 

J Feature-source anatomy by dataset and backbone 

Table S6 aggregates the per-source proposed and 

selected feature counts and survival rates over the grid (the source for Fig. 3a); Tables S7 and S8 break them down by dataset and by backbone (GPT-5.2 fine-tuning grid, pooled over the two C RAFTER 

18 variants and three splits). Three patterns hold. The selected total rises with residual headroom: the weak-backbone, signal-rich FAVORITA cells admit the most features, while the small or saturated EPF 

and BIZITOBS cells sit at the floor. LLM-flag fea-tures are admitted mainly where the data has ex-plicit calendar structure ( FAVORITA ); on EPF and  

> BIZITOBS

most are trimmed. LLM-code features are pruned almost everywhere. The mix is insensi-tive to the backbone (Moirai ≈ Moirai-2.0). 

Table S6: Feature-source anatomy (aggregate). Per-cell mean proposed (P) and selected (S, admitted to the corrector) feature counts by source, with survival rate 

S/ P, over the fine-tuning grid (both Moirai backbones, three splits). LLM features supply about three-quarters of the selected set; LLM-code is almost always pruned.                                         

> CRAFTER CRAFTER †
> Source PSsurv PSsurv atomic 5.73.561% 5.73.358%
> LLM-flag 11 .74.841% 10 .84.744%
> LLM-combo 5.73.968% 6.64.365%
> LLM-code 2.30.29% 2.40.27%
> Total 25 .412 .449% 25 .512 .549%
> LLM share of S 72% 74%

Table S7: Feature-source anatomy by dataset (per-cell mean, proposed/selected). P , S are the totals; LLM%(S) is the LLM share of selected features.                                    

> Dataset atomic flag combo code PSLLM%(S)
> EPF 5.5/3.19.2/2.86.8/4.12.6/0.024 .110 .069%
> ROSSMANN 5.7/3.311 .2/4.26.6/3.81.6/0.125 .111 .571%
> BIZITOBS 5.3/2.59.2/2.07.8/4.92.3/0.624 .610 .075%
> FAVORITA 6.0/4.012 .1/7.26.4/4.82.9/0.027 .416 .075%

Table S8: Feature-source anatomy by backbone (per-cell mean, proposed/selected).                      

> Backbone atomic flag combo code PSLLM%(S) Moirai 5.8/3.411 .3/4.46.2/4.72.3/0.225 .612 .673%
> Moirai-2.0 5.6/3.411 .2/5.16.1/3.52.4/0.225 .312 .272%

K Representative Accepted Features 

The examples below illustrate what each source contributes. They are drawn from the per-feature audit logs of the DeepSeek C RAFTER † runs (rolling split 8, seed 42 ), which record every candi-date’s acceptance correlation ρ and its split gain in the final corrector. “Share” is the feature’s fraction of its cell’s total corrector gain; gains are target-scale dependent, so shares compare only within a cell. 

Atomic. Compositions the search assem-bled from raw channels; the recorded name encodes the expression, e.g., 

binary_safe_div_log-cov_Promo_softplus-dow .That feature, safe _div(log( Promo ), softplus( dow )) 

(ROSSMANN , Moirai-2; ρ=0 .61 , share 50% ), is a promotion-by-weekday interaction, and the identical spec is also accepted in the decoupled CRAFTER run of the same cell. 

min(softplus( hour ), is_weekend ) (BIZITOBS ,Timer; ρ=−0.78 , share 48% ) gates the hourly IT-traffic residual by weekend and time of day. min(log( holiday ), tanh( is_weekend )) 

(ROHLIK ) is selected under four of the five backbones; for a tree corrector it reduces to a re-derived holiday indicator, typical of how the search re-expresses information the schema already carries rather than adding semantics. 

LLM-combo. Named combinations with astated mechanism. renewable_penetration , the renewable-generation forecast over the load fore-cast ( EPF , Moirai; ρ=−0.81 , share 81% ), was pro-posed because “values above 1.0 directly signal sur-plus conditions . . . which modulates price volatil-ity”; a renewables-over-load variant is selected on all five EPF backbones. baseline_mean_x_open ,the context mean × Open (ROSSMANN , Moirai; share 88% ), is the expected sales level when the store is open. event_ratio , the last value over the context mean ( FAVORITA , Chronos; share 37% ), was proposed to flag “sudden drops typical of earth-quake shocks”. 

LLM-flag. The LLM proposes the regime and its channels; the numeric thresholds are pool quantiles filled in by the enumerator. On  

> ROSSMANN

(Moirai-2; share 14% ) an anomaly direction targeting abnormal promotion days yields 1[ctx_std >q 75 ∧ Promo >0 ∧ Open ≥1] ,an open, high-volatility store running a promo-tion. On BIZITOBS (Toto; ρ=−0.61 , share 18% ), 

1[is_weekend ∨ h< 6] marks the low-load regime of the API-traffic series. On FAVORITA (Moirai), 

1[onpromotion ≤0 ∧ holiday ≤0] separates quiet baseline days from event days; holiday-conditioned flags are selected on four of the five FAVORITA 

backbones. 

LLM-code. Selected code features are rare (Ta-ble S6), and the survivors compute statistics the grammar cannot express. trend_r_squared 

(FAVORITA , Toto; share 55% ) fits a line to the last 28 days and returns its R2, proposed as “how 19 strongly a linear model explains recent sales, com-plementary to slope magnitude”. mk_trend_tau 

(M5, Timer; share 28% ) is Kendall’s τ of demand against time, a monotone-trend strength robust to outliers; its accepted source is 

> def compute_mk_trend_tau(history, chronos_pred): import numpy as np from scipy import stats if len(history) < 5: return 0.0 tau, p = stats.kendalltau( np.arange(len(history)), history) return float(tau) if not np.isnan(tau) else 0.0

L Feature transferability (faithful replay) 

We test whether features learned on one backtest window stay useful on a later one. For an ordered split pair S → T we load the accepted feature speci-fications (combinations and synthesized code) from the source cell, force-carry them into the target split’s accepted set, re-materialize the code fea-tures on the target data, and refit and evaluate the corrector with no new proposals (LLM and search off, validation gating on). Two references on the same target bound the effect: self , the target’s own accepted features replayed back (a faithfulness up-per bound that should reproduce native C RAFTER ), and cov , a covariate-only corrector (the no-transfer lower bound). The grid is two datasets ( EPF , BIZ -

> ITOBS

) × five backbones × three split pairs ( 6 → 7,

7 → 8, 6 → 8) × {cov, self, xfer} = 90 cells, all completing. The self column at split S reproduces native C RAFTER closely, so the replay is faithful. Table S9 summarizes the 30 source-cell triples and Table S10 lists every cell. Three findings hold. Transferred features match the target’s own at the median (rel. +0 .2% , 17 /30 

within ±5% ); the mean is pulled up only by a heavy tail. Distance decay is mild: the median for the two-split jump ( 6 → 8) is only a couple of percent above the adjacent-split median. The 

7/30 catastrophic transfers (worse than self by 

> 15% ) concentrate on the single-series EPF and on Moirai backbones—the shift-sensitive corner of §5.2—while the multivariate BIZITOBS panel transfers with median +0 .0% . Low feature-name overlap across splits therefore reflects equivalent-feature redundancy, not non-transferability. 

M Feature-budget sweep 

Table S11 sweeps the feature cap K over the 

30 GPT-5.2 cells (each a three-split mean), back-ing Fig. 2b and the budget claim of §5.1. The externals here are the honest budget-50 sweep 

Table S9: Transferability summary over the 30 source-cell triples. “rel.” is the relative test wMAPE gap to the reference (negative favors transfer).                          

> Question Metric Result xfer vs. self (upper bound) median rel. +0 .2% ;17 /30 within ±5%
> xfer vs. cov (lower bound) median rel. +0 .0% ;12 /30 beat cov distance decay adj. vs. far +0 .0% vs. +1 .7% (mild) catastrophic ( >15% )count 7/30 ,EPF /Moirai-dominated by dataset median rel. to self EPF +5 .6% ,BIZITOBS +0 .0%

(grid_allbb_uncap ), so their K≥10 columns are genuinely re-generated rather than repeats of the small cap. The win rate over R AW is con-stant at 80% across every K: the budget never changes which cells C RAFTER wins, only by how much. The margin over the best external system instead widens with K and then saturates at K=20 

(K=20 /50 /all are nearly identical), so K=20 is the practical operating point. Split by residual headroom, the budget amplifies an existing gap rather than creating one: on raw-weak cells (exter-nal moves R AW by ≥2% ) the mean lift over R AW 

reaches −0.131 at K=20 (20 /20 cells), whereas on raw-strong cells it sits near +0 .008 and a larger cap, if anything, fits more noise. 

N Full per-cell results 

Table S12 gives every cell of the GPT-5.2 main grid (the source for Fig. 2a); Table S13 is the DeepSeek-3.4-pro reproduction. Figure S1 plots the per-cell gain against backbone competence: the lift over RAW trends positive with the backbone’s own er-ror but is noisy, which is why the body reports the cleaner per-backbone aggregate (Fig. 2a) rather than the raw scatter. A single quantity—how much exploitable residual the frozen forecast leaves— orders the gain: the wrapper is net-positive on the weak, high-error cells to the right and neutral-to-negative on the saturated, low-error cells to the left, with no separate dependence on dataset or on which foundation model produced the point. The per-cell scatter is the headroom condition of §5.2 before averaging. 20 Table S10: Per-cell faithful replay (test wMAPE ×100 ,lower is better). cov : covariate-only target corrector (no-transfer lower bound); self : target’s own accepted fea-tures replayed (faithfulness upper bound); xfer : source-split features replayed on the target. ∆s, ∆c are the relative gaps of xfer to self and to cov in %. Pairs 

7 → 8 and 6 → 8 share the same target (split 8), so their cov/self match. 

BB pair cov self xfer ∆s ∆c

> EPF

tim 6→7 62 .8 63 .9 62 .8 −1.7 +0 .0

tim 7→8 23 .9 23 .2 23 .4 +0 .9 −2.4

tim 6→8 23 .9 23 .2 23 .8 +2 .9 −0.5

chr 6→7 62 .3 62 .6 66 .1 +5 .6 +6 .0

chr 7→8 26 .3 26 .3 25 .9 −1.4 −1.6

chr 6→8 26 .3 26 .3 26 .4 +0 .5 +0 .3

moi 6→7 59 .0 65 .9 115 .3 +75 .0 +95 .5

moi 7→8 25 .0 19 .8 22 .2 +11 .8 −11 .5

moi 6→8 25 .0 19 .8 47 .5 +139 .5 +89 .6

toto 6→7 61 .5 61 .2 63 .1 +3 .0 +2 .5

toto 7→8 23 .7 19 .7 21 .9 +11 .1 −7.4

toto 6→8 23 .7 19 .7 22 .8 +15 .7 −3.6

moi 2 6→7 62 .0 90 .2 61 .1 −32 .3 −1.6

moi 2 7→8 24 .3 19 .5 55 .1 +182 .0 +126 .8

moi 2 6→8 24 .3 19 .5 23 .3 +19 .2 −4.1

> BIZITOBS

tim 6→7 31 .8 33 .3 31 .1 −6.7 −2.3

tim 7→8 30 .5 31 .7 30 .8 −3.0 +0 .9

tim 6→8 30 .5 31 .7 30 .2 −4.8 −0.9

chr 6→7 22 .6 22 .6 22 .6 +0 .0 +0 .0

chr 7→8 21 .7 21 .7 21 .7 +0 .0 +0 .0

chr 6→8 21 .7 21 .7 21 .7 +0 .0 +0 .0

moi 6→7 36 .2 38 .0 36 .5 −4.0 +0 .8

moi 7→8 32 .1 32 .2 40 .4 +25 .2 +25 .8

moi 6→8 32 .1 32 .2 35 .7 +10 .9 +11 .4

toto 6→7 33 .8 31 .7 31 .6 −0.2 −6.4

toto 7→8 30 .3 31 .3 30 .1 −3.9 −0.5

toto 6→8 30 .3 31 .3 30 .6 −2.3 +1 .2

moi 2 6→7 24 .8 24 .8 29 .0 +16 .6 +16 .6

moi 2 7→8 23 .9 23 .9 23 .9 +0 .0 +0 .0

moi 2 6→8 23 .9 23 .9 23 .9 +0 .0 +0 .0

Table S11: Feature-budget sweep (GPT-5.2, 30 cells, three-split mean). Win rates and mean differences in test wMAPE for C RAFTER (decoupled) vs. R AW and vs. the best external system (negative mean favors C RAFTER ).                           

> KCRAFTER <RAW mean( −RAW )CRAFTER <best-ext mean( −ext)
> 580% −0.067 60% −0.020 10 80% −0.073 73% −0.025 20 80% −0.085 73% −0.038 50 80% −0.085 73% −0.039
> all 80% −0.085 73% −0.036

Algorithm S1 One C RAFTER round 

Require: accepted features F, arm statistics Θ,channel pool C, frozen backbone forecast ˆy

1: fit the corrector set on F; keep the head (N ONE /additive/multiplicative) with lowest validation wMAPE {N ONE floors risk, §3.4} 

2: r ← unexplained validation residual under the kept corrector; compute family coverage 

3: D ← PLANNER (coverage , F, blacklist )

{Reasoning: exploration directions, §3.2} 

4: PR ←   S  

> d∈D

SPECIFIER (d) ∪

BASE PROPOSER () {Reasoning: LLM-named features} 

5: PE ← UCB-S AMPLE (Θ , C) {Exploration: compositional search, §3.2} 

6: A ←  c ∈ dedup( PE ∪ PR) : |ρ(c, r )| >τ, non-collinear , within budgets {source-blind gate, §3.3} 

7: C ← C ∪ {new base columns in A} 

{Reasoning →Exploration coupling (off by default)} 

8: refit the corrector on F ∪ A ; T ← features below the per-tier top-K by permutation ∆val-wMAPE {prune} 

9: update Θ with UCB credit from kept vs. trimmed importances and the validation-wMAPE gain 

10: return (F ∪ A ) \ T , Θ, C20 30 40 50 60 70 backbone Raw wMAPE ( ×100 )20 

> 020 40 60 CRAFTER lift over Raw (%)  Timer Chronos Moirai Toto Chronos-2 Moirai-2

Figure S1: Gain vs. backbone competence (per cell, GPT-5.2). Each point is one (dataset, backbone) cell: 

x is the frozen backbone’s Raw wMAPE ×100 , y is CRAFTER ’s lift over Raw. The gain trends positive with backbone error (more exploitable residual) but is noisy across datasets; the per-backbone means (Fig. 2a) summarize the trend. Residual headroom, not dataset or backbone identity, orders the gain: points on the high-error right are consistently corrected, while saturated low-error points on the left cluster near zero or below, the per-cell form of the headroom condition (§5.2). 

21 Table S12: Main results. CRAFTER (two rightmost, gray columns) vs. the frozen backbone (R AW ), a head-only backbone fine-tune (FT), a covariate-only corrector (C OV ), the no-LLM corrector (noLLM), and three external feature-engineering systems, on the 6×6=36 -cell grid (test wMAPE ×100 , lower is better). Every feature-engineering method uses the same GPT-5.2 backend and harness, so only the feature generator differs. The noLLM, external, and C RAFTER columns average three rolling splits × three seeds; R AW , C OV , and FT involve no LLM or search randomness and are single-run on the same splits. Per-cell seed variability is quantified on the DeepSeek companion grid (Table S13 caption; App. D). CHR is Chronos (univariate); CHR 2 is the covariate-aware Chronos-2, reported single-seed (42) on the same splits. C RAFTER is the full system; C RAFTER † adds source coupling (§5.2 of the main paper). Bold = a C RAFTER variant beats every non-fine-tuned baseline in that row (both may bold); if neither does, the row’s best method is bold. A star ( ∗) marks a bold C RAFTER variant that also 

beats FT. R AW , C OV and FT are LLM-independent and shared with Table S13; the stronger full-parameter Moirai fine-tune is in Table S2. 

Dataset BB RAW FT COV noLLM TSF RESH CAAFE LLM-FE CRAFTER CRAFTER †

epf tim 53.7 56.9 46.2 48.9 44.7 49.9 50.5 37.4 * 37.1 *

chr 49.9 52.0 45.4 42.2 46.5 46.5 47.5 37.9 * 31.6 *

moi 73.2 71.2 60.7 62.7 60.3 62.0 58.7 35.1 * 35.3 *

toto 55.8 55.8 49.8 49.9 49.9 45.1 46.2 36.6 * 32.7 *

chr 2 52.6 55.1 43.7 41.3 50.6 42.4 44.0 37.1 * 32.2 *

moi 2 55.0 55.0 41.6 42.1 42.3 43.9 42.0 38.7 * 40.0 *

rossmann tim 39.5 39.5 16.7 16.7 13.9 17.2 17.2 13.5 * 13.7 *

chr 20.6 21.3 11.9 11.9 12.2 12.0 12.0 11.7 * 11.7 *

moi 30.0 29.8 24.7 26.4 24.8 24.8 24.8 13.2 * 13.1 *

toto 22.2 22.2 14.5 14.5 13.9 14.4 14.3 12.6 * 12.5 *

chr 2 20.4 21.1 15.9 15.8 15.5 15.9 15.9 13.1 * 12.8 *

moi 2 21.4 21.4 12.6 12.7 12.8 12.6 12.6 11.9 * 12.0 *

rohlik tim 36.1 30.3 33.4 33.4 33.3 32.9 32.8 28.1 * 28.1 *

chr 27.4 27.2 24.7 24.6 24.6 24.7 24.6 24.4 * 24.4 *

moi 36.2 31.2 33.5 33.5 33.4 32.8 32.7 28.0 * 28.0 *

toto 28.2 28.2 25.1 25.1 25.1 25.2 25.2 25.0 * 24.9 *

chr 2 26.6 27.1 23.8 23.8 23.8 23.9 23.9 23.6 * 23.6 *

moi 2 34.9 29.2 32.2 32.3 32.1 31.9 31.8 27.7 * 27.7 *

bizitobs tim 49.5 51.9 42.4 43.2 42.5 43.6 43.6 38.5 * 37.4 *

chr 24.6 25.0 25.7 34.1 25.7 25.7 25.7 31.4 30.3 moi 51.5 50.9 43.5 43.9 43.0 45.1 44.2 37.3 * 37.5 *

toto 39.0 39.0 40.9 37.6 38.9 40.8 40.8 36.6 * 35.6 *

chr 2 23.6 25.3 31.0 30.9 24.4 24.4 24.4 31.1 31.4 moi 2 27.1 27.1 27.7 29.6 27.9 28.0 28.0 30.9 29.6 favorita tim 24.9 23.2 21.8 23.1 21.5 21.7 21.6 22.3 22.7 chr 17.5 17.4 17.6 18.0 17.4 17.6 17.6 17.5 17.4 

moi 20.6 20.6 19.8 20.3 19.9 19.8 19.6 20.1 20.3 toto 17.4 17.4 17.7 18.2 17.4 17.6 17.6 18.3 18.2 chr 2 14.4 14.6 15.2 15.3 14.5 14.7 14.6 15.3 15.9 moi 2 16.5 16.5 16.6 17.4 16.5 16.6 16.6 17.2 17.2 m5 tim 52.5 51.4 51.0 51.0 51.0 51.0 51.0 50.9 * 50.9 *

chr 50.3 49.9 50.3 50.7 50.3 50.3 50.3 50.1 50.2 

moi 52.2 52.2 52.1 52.3 52.1 52.1 52.1 51.0 * 51.6 *

toto 49.7 49.7 50.1 50.5 50.1 50.1 50.0 50.4 50.4 chr 2 50.4 49.5 51.2 51.2 50.6 50.6 50.5 50.2 50.3 

moi 2 49.0 49.0 49.3 49.9 49.3 49.3 49.3 49.8 49.8 

22 Table S13: DeepSeek-3.4-pro full grid (cross-LLM reproduction; test wMAPE ×100 , 6×6=36 cells, lower is better). Companion to the GPT-5.2 Table S12 with the same columns; the per-backbone summary is in Table 1 of the main paper. R AW , C OV and FT are LLM-independent and shared with Table S12. noLLM, C RAFTER and the externals are the DeepSeek runs; C RAFTER † is the DeepSeek source-coupling variant (3 splits, single-seed). Bold 

and star ( ∗) follow Table S12. Across the three seeds the median per-cell std of the split-averaged value is 0.02 

(noLLM), 0.01 (TSF RESH ), 0.05 (CAAFE), 0.08 (LLM-FE), and 0.49 (C RAFTER ); R AW is seed-deterministic, and the largest C RAFTER stds all sit on EPF and BIZITOBS . The CHR 2 (Chronos-2) rows are single-seed (42) on the same three splits, matching how Chronos-2 is reported in Table S12. 

Dataset BB RAW FT COV noLLM TSF RESH CAAFE LLM-FE CRAFTER CRAFTER †

epf tim 53.7 56.9 46.2 43.7 44.7 50.1 53.4 43.4 * 31.3 *

chr 49.9 52.0 45.4 42.6 45.2 47.6 45.7 48.5 43.9 moi 73.2 71.2 60.7 57.2 56.6 60.7 57.5 59.2 28.6 *

toto 55.8 55.8 49.8 50.3 49.9 45.6 45.9 43.9 * 40.9 *

chr 2 52.6 55.1 43.7 47.0 42.9 43.6 44.3 46.8 37.2 *

moi 2 55.0 55.0 41.6 42.4 42.3 45.1 42.8 44.4 36.0 *

rossmann tim 39.5 39.5 16.7 17.0 13.8 17.4 17.4 14.2 13.2 *

chr 20.6 21.3 11.9 11.5 12.3 11.9 11.9 11.5 * 11.5 *

moi 30.0 29.8 24.7 25.0 24.8 24.8 24.8 23.9 * 13.2 *

toto 22.2 22.2 14.5 13.9 13.9 14.3 14.4 13.9 * 12.0 *

chr 2 20.4 21.1 15.9 16.4 16.0 15.9 16.0 16.3 12.6 *

moi 2 21.4 21.4 12.6 12.4 12.8 12.6 12.6 11.9 * 12.1 *

rohlik tim 36.1 30.3 33.4 26.8 26.4 26.1 26.1 26.7 26.6 chr 27.4 27.2 24.7 24.6 24.6 24.7 24.6 24.5 * 24.3 *

moi 36.2 31.2 33.5 33.6 33.4 32.9 32.6 32.5 28.4 *

toto 28.2 28.2 25.1 25.1 25.1 25.2 25.2 25.0 * 24.9 *

chr 2 26.6 27.1 23.8 23.5 23.5 23.5 23.5 23.4 * 23.5 *

moi 2 34.9 29.2 32.2 32.4 32.1 31.9 31.8 31.5 28.0 *

bizitobs tim 49.5 51.9 42.4 43.9 42.5 43.7 44.6 42.5 35.7 *

chr 24.6 25.0 25.7 28.2 25.7 25.7 25.7 24.6 * 26.7 moi 51.5 50.9 43.5 44.8 43.1 42.6 42.7 43.3 38.4 *

toto 39.0 39.0 40.9 44.0 39.0 41.6 41.0 40.4 36.6 *

chr 2 23.6 25.3 31.0 23.6 24.4 24.4 24.4 25.9 25.8 moi 2 27.1 27.1 27.7 27.6 27.9 28.4 28.2 26.7 * 26.6 *

favorita tim 24.9 23.2 21.8 21.3 21.7 21.6 21.5 21.1 * 21.0 *

chr 17.5 17.4 17.6 17.6 17.4 17.6 17.6 17.5 17.6 moi 20.6 20.6 19.8 19.8 20.0 19.8 19.8 19.9 19.9 toto 17.4 17.4 17.7 17.6 17.4 17.6 17.5 17.5 17.4 

chr 2 14.4 14.6 15.2 14.6 14.5 14.7 14.6 14.4 * 14.5 moi 2 16.5 16.5 16.6 16.6 16.5 16.6 16.6 16.6 16.3 *

m5 tim 52.5 51.4 51.0 51.1 51.0 50.9 50.9 51.1 52.4 chr 50.3 49.9 50.3 50.3 50.3 50.3 50.3 50.3 51.1 moi 52.2 52.2 52.1 52.1 52.1 52.0 52.0 52.2 52.0 *

toto 49.7 49.7 50.1 49.7 50.1 50.1 50.1 49.7 49.9 chr 2 50.4 49.5 51.2 49.6 49.7 49.6 49.6 49.6 49.3 *

moi 2 49.0 49.0 49.3 49.1 49.3 49.3 49.3 49.1 49.4 

23